

A mom’s job is never truly finished—Elise knew this instinctively when her son was born. For at least the hundredth time, she sat next to his bed in that chair mending his quilt. There was no way of knowing, the day she bought it at a flea market, that it would become her son’s most valued possession. 

To call it a quilt stretched the definition as it was nothing more than a thousand pieces of oddly shaped swatches stitched together, layer after layer, until the whole of it was thick enough to hold in the warmth of a small boy's body as he drifted off to sleep. The person who pieced together this labor of love must have spent countless hours shaping the useless remnants into a usable blanket. Elise felt it was her duty to repair the inevitable rips as an homage to the unknown creator and as a manifestation of her adoration for the little boy who cherished it.

“I love how cool it feels when I first get into bed,” her little man observed the first night he wrapped himself in the old quilt. “But before long, it warms up, and I’m snug as a bug in a rug. Where did you get it?” 

The question was one whose answer was too mundane to inflict on a wide eyed little boy, so Elise stretched the truth just a little. “It was brought over on the Mayflower by the Pilgrims,” she answered to her son's delight. “It’s made from pieces of fabric from all over Europe and is the first blanket used by the first Americans.”

It was just a little white lie, but it was also the beginning of a cherished tradition. As stitches unraveled and as tears ripped the quilt and the little boy's heart, Elise sat by his bed and mended the heirloom. Then she would continue the "true" story of how the quilt had found its way to her son. 

“During the Revolutionary War, your quilt was captured by General Cornwallis and used to keep his legs warm on the cold winter nights.” Elise said, weaving a story as intricate as the blanket itself. “It wasn’t until the surrender at Yorktown that it was returned.”

“Yorktown?”

“Yes, Yorktown,'' she said smiling, “George Washington took it from Cornwallis and used it during his eight years as president.”

“You mean my blanket has been to the White House?” 

“Of course it has,” Elise answered with a wink. “But not because of George Washington, silly. John Adams was the first president to live in the White House.”

“Who then, Mom? ``The little boy asked., “Who took my blanket to the White House?”

“That’s a story for later,” Elise replied, kissing her son on his forehead. “Now you get some sleep, and I’ll continue the story next time.”

Elise, unfortunately, had far too many opportunities to continue the blanket’s tale as her son was given to debilitating headaches. At first, the doctors thought he was prone to systemic migraines, but the truth was much worse. Many nights, too many, the little boy would curl up in pain, his teeth clenched in a faux smile. The headaches were excruciating, only soothed by a cold wash cloth, his mother’s gentle voice, and the telling of the quilt’s tale as he drifted off to sleep. 

There were also many a night where Elise would sit with her son as he slept, meticulously piecing back together the tears that threatened the blanket entirely, wishing there was a way she could also mend her son. The room would be completely quiet save for the sound of Elise’s song. It was something she had done since she was his age. Inadvertently yet intentionally she would let the air slip through her lips, creating a tune just for him that would live for that moment, replaced the next time by one equally beautiful and equally unique.

“As it turns out, the first time the quilt made it to the White House was just after Abraham Lincoln was elected president,” Elise said the next night, continuing the story from where they’d left off. The pain had become more frequent and more intense, requiring more chapters more often. The story's continuation, however, had the desired results, a distraction and a smile.

“Abraham Lincoln, he used my quilt, too?” her son asked, too young to doubt his mother. 

“Of course he did,” Elise responded, tickling her son just to hear him laugh. “It’s a little known fact, but Mount Rushmore was actually created to show all of the presidents who used your blanket.”  

Elise always had a basin of cold water by her side whenever she sat with her son. Very early on she learned that the coolness of the cloth would help quiet the pain in his head. It was her greatest joy to moisten the cloth keeping it cold throughout her story. The little boy’s head still throbbed, but while his mom was telling the story she would gently wipe his forehead with the cold cloth, and it was almost as if he forgot the pain for a time. If all went well, he would fall asleep listening to the tale of his blanket, as sleep was becoming his only relief from the pain.

“Did you know your blanket went to the moon?” Elise asked one day when her son seemed particularly down. “Neil Armstrong may have been the first man to set foot on the moon, but he laid out your quilt so he and Buzz Aldrin could have a picnic.” 

The idea of two astronauts having a picnic on the moon resulted in spontaneous laughter for both mother and son. 

“Is Buzz Lightyear named after Buzz Aldrin?” he asked his mom, as both continued to laugh.

“As a matter of fact he was,” Elise replied with a smile. “If you must know, Buzz Aldrin presented your quilt to Buzz Lightyear as a gift which means your blanket has been…”

“To infinity and beyond!” 

“Exactly,” Elise confirmed as she refreshed his cloth and placed it back on his head.

Day after day she would take her boy to doctors and then specialists and eventually to the hospital. Then, night after night, she would sit by his bed and tell the story of the quilt. Elise did everything she could to stretch out the story, and as each new adventure was passed from mother to son so too was hope, in the only way she knew how.  

The night that she finished the story was, in so many ways, just like most of the other nights. Elise was home in her favorite chair next to her son’s bed. Her breathing was labored and her voice unsteady. “And then I stopped by a flea market on my way home from the store and there it was, your beautiful, wonderful blanket. I knew you must have it, so I scooped it up, paid the nice woman, and brought it home to you.”

Tears filled Elise’s eyes as she sewed the last stitch on the old quilt. Holding it up, she remembered the first time her son covered himself with the blanket. I love how cool it feels when I first get into bed.

“It’s finally fixed. It’s perfect.” Elise said out loud, tears continuing to flow. “I love how cool it feels, too.” 

Summoning every bit of her strength, she lay the beloved blanket on the empty bed in front of her. 

Being a mom is a job that is never truly finished, at least she had hoped so. With nothing else left to do for her son, she sat back in the chair and silently sobbed. 
“My father told me of the great massacre of Summer, 2020.” Randolf’s grandfather began. 

Randolf looked over at his twelve siblings, they were all spitting images of Randolf- wee ash grey mice squatting comfortably like furry little pom-poms. All twenty-four of their shiny black bead eyes were wide with raptness, Randolf joined them in their gaze towards the elderly, somewhat scruffy mouse with one torn ear and a kink in his tail.

Grandfather mouse continued when he had all thirteen children’s attention in full, he savored the dramatic pause, the flickering of the fire in the glowing hearth added dramatic shadows to the burrow walls.

He said, “Yes, the summer of 2020. Like you little ones, I too, had had twelve siblings. We lived in a hollowed-out log that was part of the Johnson’s cabin. They started out as just a couple, the cabin their vacation home. They came in the winter to do maintenance on the place, and at least once in the fall. Sometimes they spent whole summers, sometimes just the weekends in the spring. The human female was Rosie, her husband was Frank---"

Serafina said, “How did you find enough food to eat?”

Grandfather said, “Since they did not live there year-round, my siblings and I were taught to value every crumb dropped, and every cake left unattended. We stored enough during the visits to last us when the pantry contained only cans.”

There was a collective ‘grrrr’ amongst the wee mice. Cans were mean.

“The couple had a baby. And we feasted on a flood of tasty droppings. The pantry was stocked with cereals and jars small enough to be pushed from shelves.”

“Watch out for glass slivers!” Exclaimed Randolf.

“That’s right Randy, you’ve learned well… ummmm, where was I?”

“You were about to get to the part about the stinky man.” Said Serafina.

Randolf added, “Yeah, the mean, rotten, crazy one!”

“Ah yes…

There was a neighbor, through the woods, about an acre away. He lived in the woods all year round. The neighbor was a slob and a hoarder, his yard full of trash bags and Amazon boxes. The man smelled of pee and stink and crazy. The place would have been great for foraging except there were millions of rats, big mean ones.”

The rapt grandchildren mice inhaled as one. Rats were mean bullies, and cannibalistic. The mice shivered.

“The stinky man got a dog to catch the rats. A young, big black lab. The man starved the dog so it would be hungry enough to eat the rats. It grew thinner and thinner, tied to a rope outside, never inside was it allowed. It did indeed grow so hungry that it had to catch and eat rats---”

Millicent squeaked, “Grampa, I thought dogs were mans best friend. To be spoiled and cared for and loved…”

“Yes, sweetheart, but you see, the stinky man was not right in the head. That poor pup deserved so much better. I started going over there daily. Not to forage, there were still too many rats guarding the loot, but to check on the dog. He had bald patches where fleas had wreaked havoc, his eyes oozed with infection, and his dull coat was like plastic wrap over pointy, knobby bones.”

Randolf’s sisters wiped their eyes.

“One day, the poor dog could barely lift its head. He’d given up waiting for a kind word or a loving hand. His depression roiled off his emaciated body in sickly waves. 

I had to do something. 

I crept through the littered weeds as quietly as I could, to the dog. He looked up at me, but I wasn’t afraid. After all the abuse, I saw kindness, still, in his glazed over, sad eyes.”

“What did you do Grampa?” asked William.

“What any decent creature would. I chewed the rope. It was thick, but it was rotting too, from being outside and all. When the dog was free, I led him away from the fetid yard. He followed me to Frank and Rosie’s cabin. The couple were appalled at the poor pup’s condition.

Frank had said, ‘How could anyone do this?’

Rosie had sobbed and said, ‘It’s that man. That crazy one next door.’

Frank had said, ‘This must be the dog we heard barking last month.’

‘The poor thing is starving! And sick. Oh Frank, look at his poor eyes!’

Frank, Rosie, and the baby, named Josephine, took the dog to the town’s vet.

The next day some men went to the stinky man’s house and took him away. The dog was brought back to the cabin. My word! He did not even look like the same pathetic creature from just two days earlier! His coat was shiny, silky black and his wonderful kind eyes clear. He had steak for supper that night and even given a name. Jagger, named after some rock star, I believe.”

Sherry said, “The Rolling Stones! That’s the band Rosie listens to when she’s baking those yummy peanut butter cookies.”

All the wee mice went “Mmmmmmmmmm.”

Grandfather Mouse continued, “All was good. Everyone in the cabin was happy and healthy.

Then, in the middle of summer, Frank built a barn. A great big thing. You see, the couple were talking of moving into the cabin full time. Rosie was offered a teaching job at the elementary school, and Frank was going to restore old classic cars. He’d continue writing in his spare time.

The barn was rough wood boards, sturdy, and well insulated from the humidity and wet winter weather. It was his workshop, four cars at a time would fit under its high, vaulted roof. There were windows high under the eaves, to let in sunshine.

All was well, the change in plans was a win-win for all, including us mice. Tasty droppings all year round. And dog kibble…not as good as chocolate cake, but nutritious.”

“Ew, I don’t like dog kibble.” Randolf said and made a face.

“Well kiddo, you’d eat it if you were very hungry.”

William said, “I like the liver treats the best!”

“As do I” Grandfather mouse said, “Shall I go on?”

All thirteen grandchildren mice squealed, “Oh yes! Please!”

“Okay…so all was well and good. Then the barn owls came.”

Eight of the grandchildren mice cried, “No!” The other five gasped.

“Oh yes. Huge pale birds with razor sharp talons and wicked curved beaks. They swooped out of thin air like silent ghosts. They were evil, evil things. Sooo fast they were, by the time you saw them coming it was too late. There were two of them. They’re eyes were huge and rimmed with fire, nothing escaped their searching, keen, eyeballs. The eyes of devils.

Early in the day, my mother and father went out to the yard. They never came back. Later we got thirsty, our parents weren’t coming home, ever. So, eight of my brothers and I fetched some fresh puddle water from the dripping garden hose. I happened to look behind us and saw a shadow gliding over the yard, coming our way. I said, ‘RUN!’ And us nine raced as fast as we could. Not fast enough. Four brothers were snatched from the right of me, the other four at the same time from my left. The owl’s banshee screeching nearly shattered my eardrums.

When I made it to safety, into the drainpipe against the cabin, I looked up into the sky. It was just getting dark; the two killers were pale fliers like airplanes in the purpling light. I heard my siblings’ death shrieks, high pitched and full of terror. Each soaring killer had two wriggling mice in each wicked claw, Desmond and Dewey were pierced through their bellies but still screaming. The nasty claws were dripping with my family’s blood. The owls were laughing as they flew into the barn. It had been madness we now call the ‘Season of Slaughter.’ Only my sister Sophie and I were left of our big happy family.

“Grandfather, we won’t be able to sleep now.” Said Randolf.

Grandfather Mouse said, “Go have your Granny Sophie make you some warm milk.”

***

High in the rafters, in the nest of twigs and grass and soft green moss, an old barn owl with cataracts in his eyes and sparse tailfeathers sat on dry, cracked feet. They’d once been a healthy supple yellow, but with age had turned brown. His head nodded down to his chest as his large golden eyes slid closed.

“Grampa, Grampa! Wake up! You have to finish the story!” Cried a fluffball baby owl the color of cappuccino and milk. 

“Yes, yes Caplan…I’m awake, just resting my tired ole eyes. Where was I?”

“Just getting to the Feast of August!” cried wee Caplan, his heart shaped face eager for the climax of the story. His eyes glittered with youth and joy.

“Ah yes yes, the feast. Let me see…well, your parents had just been born, they were our only owlet kids. They were voracious. Always had their beaks open the minute we came in through the window or big barn doors.”

Caplan looked down at the big double doors, nearly the entire front wall disappeared when they were both open. They had to be big, all those old cars had to fit through them. The human male, Frank, did not park under the nest. Simon felt badly for him but when you gotta go, you gotta go.

Grampa Owl continued, “The day started out fine indeed. We caught two of those stupid little mice, they live in the wall in the cabin and come outside to fetch water. They are dumb, but very fast---”

“And delicious!”

“Yes yes, mighty tasty, always been a favorite of mine. Anyways, we snatched up two of them. They were older mice, a little tougher than the young ones, must have been the parents. We figured that was it for the day. Then lo and behold, nine in the yard! Fetching water. I suppose they’d gotten so thirsty when their parents didn’t bring any home that morning.”

Caplan nodded vigorously, his mouth was watering, his shiny eyes glowing luminescent amber.

“Yes yes, so, there they were. Down by the garden hose, drinking from the puddle under it. Your grandma and I were quiet as kites, soaring in the twilight sky. We flew into the stars where the mice couldn’t see us, but we could see them. Oh yes yes, those were the days. We could see for miles around---”

“And even tiny mice far on the ground below…”

“Yes yes, our famously great eyesight runs in the family. So, there they were just lollygagging about…when suddenly, the one in the middle looks up and behind him. He spotted us and screamed. Then they ran for the cabin as fast as they could. They nearly got away, but I tucked in my wings like a bomber plane, and dove. Your Granma Elsa did the same. We were dropping to the earth at a million miles an hour! 

Just atop those plump little mice, we spread our wings and soared back up…each with two mice in each claw.

“Wow. That’s so cool. Eleven in one day. Eight at one time is legendary!”

***

Frank’s honey colored workbench top was warm and polished by years of hand rubbed care and cleaning with an oily wood polish. It was scarred and chipped and smelled of the citrusy solution. A row of six red metal toolboxes lined the wall behind the bench. There were mugs and a collection of vintage steins holding paintbrushes and drafting pencils and small office tools.

‘If the old mouse was smart, he would be eating his snack on the bench. He’d be too fast for me up there, at finding a hidey hole.’ Thought the barn owl as it landed clumsily on the smooth cement floor. ‘Ouch. Not as spry as I used to be.’

The old barn owl hobbled over to where the old mouse sat, nibbling a tiny crumb from Frank’s lunchtime sandwich. It was yellow with mustard and smelled of ham. 

The mouse looked up and said, “I heard you telling your grandkid about the Season of Slaughter---”

“Ha ha, you mean the ‘Feast of August’.”

“Whatever.”

“Aren’t you afraid I’ll eat you now?”

“You won’t get the chance.”

The old owl was crumply with age, his bones creaky with arthritis. But he still believed mice were stupid. He lunged towards the old, nearly white mouse. The mouse was as old as the owl but had always been faster on the ground, he scootched backwards in a blur as the huge black dog caught the owl in his frosty colored jaws.

High in the rafters, a young barn owl screeched in distress.

Casey’s eyes were glued on the ferocious animal in front of her, heart beating wildly as she lay frozen in the tall, dry grass. From between the blades she watched the beautiful leopard placidly groom itself in the sun rays. Casey wished she was close enough to feel the deep throated purring, but didn’t dare move. “Look, Momo,” she whispered to her friend laying next to her.  After a pause she huffed, “Of course it’s not a cheetah, silly. They have solid spots. Look at its coat. Hollow spots, not solid.” The stuffed lemur made no reply.

Casey cupped her hands around her eyes like binoculars and contemplated her next move. Before she could come up with a plan, the cat suddenly pounced towards a scurrying critter Casey couldn’t see. Both predator and prey darted and dashed around the field before both scurried up the nearby tree and out of Casey’s view. Casey imagined what it would be like to be that prey, how scared and alone it must be. “You know Momo, it’s kind of sad that the prey gets caught alone.” She gave a sigh as she stood up with the lemur dangling in her hand. “Maybe if it had more friends… then life wouldn’t be so scary. Then someone could be like a lookout or back up!” She looked down to the lemur and nodded. “I know... you’re my backup. Just like I’m yours!”

Casey stood in the hot sun, sweat starting to bead on her forehead. “Okay, the boss wants us to deliver our package before noon which is when the sun reaches the highest point in the sky.” She tilted her head to the sky to read the sun’s position, then stealthily snuck a peak at her Hello Kitty watch. “C’mon Momo, we don’t have much time!” She took off down the path, her precious cargo bouncing in the bag on her back, Momo swinging wildly in her grip.

Casey and lemur stopped at the edge of a big field on the edge of the park. “Look at this grassland. We must be in the savanna!” She looked out over the field seeing a plethora of animals. “Wow Momo, look at the elephants and zebras. Maybe we’ll see a gazelle.” She put Momo down and grabbed her water bottle from the side of her bag. She tilted the bottle over Momo’s mouth. She then removed the cap and took a sip, the cool water sliding down her parched throat. “No you can’t have more, we have to save it. It’s still a long journey.” She stared at the yellow button eyes. “I know this isn’t easy. But someone’s gotta do it.” She screwed the cap back on and slid the bottle back into its sleeve. “What do you mean I dragged you into this?”

Casey chatted with the lemur as she walked along the field but stopped talking when she heard noise coming from around the fence ahead. She swallowed hard and slowly peered around the corner, careful to be quiet. She saw four boys playing with a small animal. “Look Momo,” she whispered. “Poachers!” She watched them toss a stick around the small gray animal. “They are hunting that poor baby rhino!” She watched the small french bulldog jump around between the boys chasing after the stick. Then Casey looked at the face of one of the boys. “Oh no! It’s our arch nemesis. David the Destroyer.” She glared at the boy then stuck her tongue out. She threw Momo out then pulled him back in. “No, Momo! We can’t just go after him. We are outnumbered.” She reached around and felt her bag. “Besides, this isn’t the mission.”

Casey began walking away when a boy yelled out, “Hey Casey!” She gasped and started to run away. “He’ll ruin our mission!” Casey ran along the fence until she found four scooters laying around. She grabbed the one she recognized and blasted off down the path leaving her nemesis calling after her. 

Casey came to a stop when her heart couldn’t take any more and her lungs were burning from her dramatic escape; but she forgot all of it when she saw the challenge before her. “Look Momo. A maze of physical tests to keep anyone out of the temple. We will have to be tough.” She dropped the scooter at the edge of the park and raced towards her first challenge - the monkey bars. “Hold onto me Momo!” She strapped the lemur’s arms around her as she jumped up and gripped the hot metal. The hardest part was taking a hand off to reach for the next bar. She tried not to look down as she timed her swinging. Not yet, she thought, straining against her grip. Now!  She boldly reached out, grabbed the next one and secured a solid grip, swung back a bit then launched her other hand onto the same bar. Casey slowly, painfully, made her way across the bars, hands burning from refusing to let her fall. 

When she reached the end, she dropped back down and looked back. “Phew! That could have been a deadly fall! You should keep holding onto me, I’ll get us through the rest.” Casey climbed up colourful towers and slid down chutes, she jumped over and ducked under obstacles until she faced a harrowing threat. “Ok, Momo. If I can avoid these four swinging boulders, it’s a clear shot to the temple.” 

Casey stared across the path along the swingset, transforming the four kids into hardened rocks. Her eyes followed the swing in front of her, she darted through its path safely, narrowingly missing the next one as it swung in front of her. The laughter and chatter around her dissolved into jungle noises of bird and insect calls. She swung around and danced in time to the swaying, nimbly jumping across the grooves. Suddenly a heavy weight hit her on her back, throwing her and Momo to the ground. The kid scrambled off the swing and raced to Casey who was sprawled on the ground. “Are you okay? I didn’t see you!” The young boy reached a hand down to Casey who was dazed from the blow as much as the hit of reality. Casey kept her gaze down as she slowly sat up. She nodded shyly to the kid, then suddenly swooped up Momo and ran to the end of the park before the kid could react. 

Casey held Momo close to her chest as she fought back tears. “That was a close one Momo. We … we were almost captured…” her mind scrambled for an escape, “... by that bandit.” She looked back to the swing set and saw swaying boulders once more. The bandit stood there watching her. “C’mon, we better hurry.” Casey turned and raced across the bare land leading up the entrance of the temple. 

When she got closer, two people emerged from the entrance so she darted into the bushes along the wall to avoid being seen. “That was close. There are guards everywhere! We need to watch our backs.” She snuck along the wall of the building and the bushes covering the front garden. When she saw the entrance was clear she came out and faced two large wooden doors. “Ok Momo, here we go.” She reached out and half-heartedly pulled on the heavy door. “Oh no! There must be a secret code or something!” She held the lemur up as she looked around. “Good eyes Momo!” She took a few steps across the path and saw a post sitting on the edge of a bush. “Wow, look at this insignia! A person sitting on half a circle… hmmm.” She rubbed at her chin. “It must be a symbol of the temple’s god!” She reached out and pushed the button. The doors clicked and slowly swung open. “Yay! We did it!” 

Casey raced inside the temple, heart thundering. The smell of old books and dust was a comfort to her. It felt like a welcoming hug from all her imagined friends and adventures. Casey stalked through the front entrance, cautious to avoid the view of anyone who was murmuring ahead. “In order to complete our mission, we have to face the keeper of the temple.” Casey squatted down beside a bench and took off her backpack. She carefully removed her precious cargo, zipped up the empty bag and swung it back over her shoulder. “Stay close to me.” Casey took a deep breath, stood up and walked to the front desk.

It was as if a cloud had cleared from Casey’s mind. Suddenly she was aware of being in the library. The temple was gone, replaced by rows of wooden bookshelves piled high. People were mulling around or sitting at desks. She became aware of the noise around her, growing louder until it felt overwhelming. Ahead of her was the front desk with the clerk watching her patiently. She could feel her heart pound against her ribs as true fear pinned her to the ground with the man’s clear blue gaze solely on her. Her grip tightened on her stuffed animal and she tried to swallow with her dry mouth.

“Hello there,” said the middle aged man at the desk. “Can I help you with something?” Casey stood frozen to the ground, a whooshing sound filling her ears. The clerk smiled and looked down at her hands. “Are you here to return those books?” He asked nicely. Casey nodded stiffly, feeling every vertebrae move at the forced movement. The clerk kept smiling and reached over the desk to her. Casey stepped towards him very slowly and held out her books. The clerk took them gently and read the titles. “Oh, a very nice read. Tomb Raider is an amazing story, especially for a young girl like you. And let’s see… Animals of the Serengeti. Another amazing find.” He fished around under his desk and pulled out two slips of paper while Casey stood there frozen. Her heart began to hurt at the strain. She gripped Momo tighter to her chest. He stamped both slips before he opened the books and returned the paper sheet to the proper book. “There we go. You are all set little lady. Would you like to pick out some more books?” Casey’s eyes widened as he looked back at her. Her breath quickened as she shook her head quickly then darted down the hallway, through the heavy door and back out into the parking lot. 

“That was a close one Momo. Too bad we couldn’t get more books” She hugged her toy to her chest and started walking home. “Yeah, you’re right, maybe next time.” She passed the playground with the swings and the jungle gym. She walked by the big field where some kids were playing ball. Finally past her neighbour’s yard where the tabby cat was still grooming itself by the tree. She walked passed the scooter she stole and up the steps but stopped when she heard her parents through the screen door. “ - wasn’t ready for this,” her mom said sternly. “She is too young, too fragile.” Her dad’s deep voice was calm as he responded. “She’ll be fine. She’s probably not back yet ‘cuz she’s… hanging out in her own world. You know her.” 

“Yes, I do know her and her worlds. I told you we can’t keep letting her read like she does if it only makes things worse. She needs friends and kids in her life!” 

Casey kept her hand on the door handle, listening. Her heart dropped to her stomach. They can’t take her books away, they are all she has.

“You worry too much. She’s just a kid.”

“A kid who doesn’t talk! Except to that stuffed thing she lugs around everywhere. You shouldn’t have let her go off by herself.”

“So you want her to be grown up enough to socialize but not walk three blocks to the library?” Casey could hear her dad’s frustration growing.

“I want her to be normal. To be happy.”

Casey peeked into the house through the screen and saw her dad hug her mom. His voice was a little muffled as he responded, “What makes you think she isn’t?”

Before her mom could reply, Casey pulled open the screen door and rushed inside. Both adults turned to her as she entered the room. She gave her parents a huge smile and ran up to them. “Heya there champ!” Her dad said as he leaned down for the hug she rushed at him. “Did you have fun on your secret mission?” Casey kept her arms around him, looked up and nodded enthusiastically. 

Just then, barking came from the other room as a small, gray french bulldog came bounding up to Casey followed by her arch nemesis. “Hey twerp!” Casey stuck out her chest and faced David head on, but he only smiled and scuffed up her hair. ”Next time you wanna steal my scooter, maybe don’t leave it less than a block away from the scene of the crime.” David said jokingly as he went into the kitchen.

Casey faced her parents again then rubbed the jumping dog, pretending it was a baby rhino. “So, did you accomplish your secret mission?” Her dad asked, sitting down next to her and petting the dog with her. Casey looked at her dad’s smiling face, then her mom’s look of concern as a thought occurred to her.

Reality was really scary sometimes, but just like in her adventures, as long as you have someone there as back up- someone who believes in you - maybe everything will work out. 

A small smile came to her lips and she said, “Yes, we did.”



She took her first breath in a grove of towering aspen trees, under the shadow of a hummingbird’s wing. Her mother was the melody of the mountain stream and her father was the glitter of sunlight through the coin-shaped leaves. 

The forest cared for her, swaddled her in wildflowers and sustained her with birdsong. When she cried, the butterflies kissed her cheeks and dried her tears. She grew strong and fast, and in only a few years she was taller than the saplings that sprouted on the day of her birth.

When the nights were cold, she slept beside the fawns, curled up against their spotted backs while their mothers sang lullabies and told stories. On warm spring evenings, she lay on beds of moss and sweet-smelling fallen leaves. 

She played with the bluebirds, who taught her to sing. She raced the coyote pups along dry stream beds. On rainy days when the earth smelled of sky, she wandered down to the mountain lake and swam with the river otters.

She lived a contented life for many years in the little grove. The woods and the mountainside loved her dearly, knew the sound of her footsteps and the touch of her fingers. Even the most fearsome creatures were tame in her presence. The bears told her where to find the sweetest honey. The chorus of wolves sang her dirges in hollow harmony, hoping to see her smile. Even the mountain lion tipped his regal head in her direction as he stalked by in search of prey. 

She was the forest’s very heart. 

One day, she awoke to strange sounds in the woods. Voices, clumsy and ill-defined, not lofty like birdsong or steady like a doe’s murmur. She climbed to the top of an old pine tree, who straightened with joy at her touch. 

A man and his son rambled through the woods, snapping limbs from sapling trees and trampling larkspur underfoot. The man was tall and thin, and the boy stood about the girl’s height, with a smile cool as a riverbed stone. 

She watched all day from a distance as they cleared a space in the aspen grove to make camp, gathered wood, made a fire, pulled fish from the lake with a stick and a string and roasted them over the flames. 

When night fell, the forest held a hushed conference about the strangers. The nervous squirrels chittered, the bucks stamped their hooves, and the owls quieted everyone down to warn them: no one was to go near these trespassers, especially not the girl.

The next morning, the girl licked dewdrops from the wild mint leaves and wandered the woods, avoiding the spot where the man and his son lay sleeping. She hummed to herself as she walked, and did not notice the boy, who had risen at the sound of her song and followed it. 

“What’s your name?” he asked as he approached, and the forest grew deathly still. 

The girl did not have a name. She did not know what names were. There was no use for such things in the forest, for the creatures knew one another too intimately for names.

“Your name?” he asked again, slowly. 

She shrugged. 

He frowned. “I’m Liam.”

“Liam,” she replied, letting the word fall from her tongue like overripe berries from a vine. 

He nodded and stepped towards her, hand outstretched. In his palm rested a hand-carved wooden rabbit, one of the most beautiful and strange things she’d ever seen. Hesitantly, knowing that the disapproving trees were watching, she snatched the rabbit from him and dashed away, vanishing into the woods.

The man and his son stayed in the grove one more day. Neither caught a glimpse of the girl in that time, and the man was quite convinced that his son had dreamed her. 

But Liam knew the truth, and so did the forest.

After the trespassers left, the girl clung tightly to the wooden rabbit and whispered her wishes in its ears. The creatures in the forest told her to forget the boy, begged her to join their games. For weeks, she could not bring herself to do either.

A year passed, and somewhere in that time the girl nearly forgot Liam. She left the wooden rabbit under the old pine tree. She played once more with the otters and sang with the sparrows. The forest was whole again, whole and happy.

Then, Liam and his father returned. 

This time, the girl was bolder and met Liam in the grove while his father fished down at the lake. He didn’t look up from the fire when she appeared, he only smiled into the gentle flames.

“I knew you were real,” he whispered.

She smiled back.

Liam and his father returned to the woods once every spring. Each year, much to the forest’s chagrin, Liam and the girl stole a moment together beneath the shade of the pine branches, nestled in the scent of fallen needles that clung to their skin.

They talked and they laughed. The girl came to love speaking in Liam’s clumsy language, just as he came to love how well she knew the forest, how deeply she belonged to it. 

The third year they met, Liam stole a kiss from the girl under the pine tree.

The fourth year, the girl stole two kisses and Liam stole a caress of the girl’s wildflower skin.

One day after many years of stealing kisses, they stole much more from one another, and lingered in the shade of the pine tree in a breathless reverie. 

Shortly after that day, Liam and his father departed the woods again. The girl fell ill. The forest did not scold, only sighed at the inevitability of it all and nursed her as best as it could. In time, she grew better and stronger. She grew fuller, too, and felt the terrifying exhilaration of life within her.

She bore a child under the shade of the aspen trees, a daughter with wildflower skin and eyes full of wishes. The girl gave her daughter the little wooden rabbit to play with and when spring came, the two of them waited under the pine tree for Liam’s return. 

When he did return, this time without his father, his cool smile did not last long. His countenance grew dark at the sight of his daughter, sleeping in a bed of pine needles. He knew that this child, like her mother, was not human, not quite. And that knowledge made him tremble.

Liam could not hear the girl’s voice over the sound of fear, rushing in white rapids within his ears. He raged, more at himself than at the girl, but the forest heard and bristled at his fury. The girl did not weep, did not plead as he turned and started back down the mountainside. She simply picked up her daughter and left the shade of the pine tree for the last time with a soft goodbye. 

The girl could forgive and forget, but the forest could not.

Liam did not make it down the mountain. 

When the girl discovered what the forest had done, she went out in search of Liam’s body, thinking she might bury the man she loved under the pine tree where she loved him. She left her daughter beside the fawns in the tender care of the aspen grove where she was raised, promising to return.

She searched for days. The forest would not tell her where he lay, so she wandered in aimless grief. With gentle chirps, the birds cautioned her to go back to her daughter. The wolves invited her to add her loss to their somber song and allow herself to heal. The mountain lion said nothing, merely nuzzled her hand and pointed her home. 

Still, she did not stop searching for Liam. The forest wept for her, with her, bitter tears of regret and love.

When she found him, lying in a field of larkspur and thistles with his eyes open to the sun, she stood over him with tears in her eyes. 

The very heart of the forest lay down beside the man she loved did not rise. 

Year after year and even to this day, all the creatures of the forest gather at the edge of that field in early spring. They bring with them the girl’s daughter, to show her the wildflowers which bloom over the place where her parents lie.

Snip, snip, snip. I’m becoming something new. I was a bolt of fabric, long and wonderful and wrapped many times around myself, hugging my own form. I had once been thread, a multitude of threads, and maybe even something else before that, but who can be expected to remember that far? Those threads were stretched tight and woven one over the other, again and again. Woven so tightly I became a taut impenetrable thing, not a hole to be seen. But now, I’m learning I am not as indestructible as I had thought. For one snap of those sharp knife-jaws and I am torn asunder. One could be worried at such a development. Perhaps I should be worried, but it has never been in my nature to let things get me down. 

Maybe it was that great long hug that I had given myself for so long that fortified me enough to let this thing happen and remain unworried. Whatever the reason, I am glad for it. For in my patience and courage I have found myself formed into a new shape. I have been cut away from the rest of my great length and now I am a number of much smaller pieces. The pieces come together with more thread, this time stitching my halves together. Gentle but deft hands work to make me what I am. I have some adornments added, including beautiful metal buttons. They hook into holes along my long straps at the top. I don’t have the right words for what my new shape might be, so I will call it leggy-half-top. 

I am folded up and tossed into a box with a number of similar-looking designs that are made from that same bolt of fabric that I was once, but am no longer. Our threads have been severed, but I feel cozy with them stacked all around me. I don’t see light again for a long time. Then my box-house is upturned and I, along with my twin designs that are not me but were once me, tumble out onto a chair. We are hung up in a tidy row inside a room whose walls are lined with other colorful items. This place is important, for it is here that I meet my people. A tall person and a small person are exploring the room, running their hands along the other designs that hang on the walls. The small one jumps excitedly when the tall one pulls me from my rack and holds me up. I learn my name then. Overalls. I may still privately call myself leggy-half-top.

The tall person and the small person bring me to their home, and I have a tiny and lovely new room where I hang next to soft, vibrant creations in a rainbow of colors. It becomes clear that the small person is to be my best friend and I hers, for she and I spend more time together than any of my companions who reside in my room with me. Sometimes I am kept so busy with the small person that I don’t see my room for long stretches of time. I have frequently been tossed on my floor-bed at nighttime only to be put to use again the following day. This is where the tall person comes in. She is a great curator and care-taker of all of the lovely items that live with me in the tiny room. 

We are a great team, the three of us. For my part, I keep the small person warm and mostly dry (except when she jumps us into puddles or goes sloshing through the stream). The small person is my adventure-gifter, taking me along on every great new exploration. And certainly, any adventurer worth their salt is bound to get some scuffs on the knees or dirt on their cuffs. That’s where the tall person comes in. She’s always washing both of us off, the small person and me. Now I will say that the small person’s washing does seem to be a bit more pleasant than my own. She sits in a white tub with water and bubbles and toy boats. From my vantage point on the floor, it certainly looks fun. My washing happens inside a large, dark machine. Usually I’m thrown in with other garments. I am proud to say, I am always the filthiest. My first trip through this machine was traumatic, but I aim to be upbeat and I am used to it now. It’s all part of our adventure lifestyle. Get messy, get clean, repeat.

Today the small person cries. We’ve fallen off of her bike. She has a scraped knee, but what really has her upset is that I am injured too, a hole scratched right through my tough thread. It doesn’t hurt me, just feels a bit more breezy than usual. The tall person knows just what to do, taking a yellow thread to the hole. She patches me up so that where there was once a hole, there is now a cheery flower. Oh, it suits me well. So much so that the next time a hole appears (snagged on the nail of a fence the small person had jumped over), we are both rather excited to see what the tall one will create to fix it. This time it’s a blue butterfly. 

My small person and I go on many adventures and I wear every new patch that the tall person sews like a badge of honor. Each one snatching a moment of memory and fastening it permanently to me. Each one a reminder that something broken can be transformed into something beautiful. 

The tall one said today that I may be getting too small. A perplexing claim, since I am the same size that I have always been. Though, now that it has been brought to my attention, I have to wonder if I have been shrinking in size without noticing. It does seem like I am covering less of the small one’s legs than I once did. Where I had once rested myself neatly just atop her red sneakers, now I find myself inching closer to those always-scuffed knees. Where I was once buttoned at the hole midway up my blue strap, now I am fastened at the hole closest to the end to accommodate the small person’s shoulders. I am not worried. I have been with my small person for so long. We are endless friends.

I am always learning a new adventure lesson. Today I am learning that even things that feel endless may eventually end. As it turns out, it is not me who is getting smaller. No, my small person has been growing taller. There soon comes a day when we no longer fit together. She cannot get the buttons and straps to connect, despite a valiant effort on her part. She lays me down on her bed and we stare at each other for a long while. I am hung back in my tiny room. This is where I stay for quite a time. Then eventually I am placed in a well-sealed box with some of my roommates to keep me company. We stay this way for so long. I try not to mind. I try to enjoy my rest. I was so busy for so long that a rest is a good thing. That’s what I tell myself.

Then, as suddenly as the confinement began, it is finished. The lid is pried off and it’s like sunrise after a long restful night. And my friend, my person, is here. Except she is no longer small. She is tall. And now there are two small versions of her. Through some great trick, she has duplicated herself. Twice. The two small ones are not exact replicas. They are each different in their own way. One is slightly bigger than the other, and it is with this slightly bigger one that I now belong.

With this new small person I learn many things. She adventures differently than my first small person, even though she looks so much like her. She creates. She is always finding ways to make new things out of old things. She makes designs with leaves and sticks. She makes animals from clay. And she paints almost every day. Day by day I am decorated with new splatters of paint until I am a speckled rainbow.

Just like before, there comes a day when my small person grows too tall to fit within my embrace. This time, I am not put into a box, I simply change rooms. The smaller person has grown and is ready to be my friend, though she does require my cuffs to be rolled up three times. She adventures much like my first friend, always running and splashing and making messes. She uses all of my pockets to collect things. The front one is for jellybeans. Like before, my small person grows. I am placed into a bag with other designs and change hands with another tall person.

This next small person is always using her fingers to play a large musical instrument. When she is in busy, overwhelming places she rubs my embroidered patches. Her music is beautiful.

My next small person keeps a magic pen in my pocket always. It can help her breathe if something makes her breathing stop. Even though I am curious to learn how the magic works, I am happy we never need to use it.

On and on I go, from one small friend to another. I have many adventures. I hear and see and do many beautiful things. My final adventure with my last small person is a camping trip. I am hung on a clothesline, but after so much wear I am less weighty than I had once been and I blow away in the wind. I am sorry to leave my friend. But I know all of the signs and we would have had to part soon anyway. I fly for a moment and it feels grand. Then I land among the fallen leaves. My new home. A place to rest.

Leaves and debris pile upon me and now I lay in the ground. I have lived many lifetimes, been precious to many small people. My patches have patches upon them, and even those have been worn through. My days with the small people were not endless. They grew until they outgrew. But they are part of me, their memories etched into my form, keeping me company. No, our days were not endless, but our joy is. That joy sustains me now, as I am buried in the ground. It’s wrapped all around me like an embrace. So I make the dirt my cozy resting place and it reminds me of long hugs and scuffed knees and mud pies. It harkens back to that time before I was thread, and only now do I really remember, when I was a wisp of a plant, blowing in the wind.

My horse Echo, idled at the hitching post with her reins looped loosely around it, as she wasn’t the kind of horse that I needed to tie down to keep near. Shotguns were pulled at high noon around these parts and her tail whipped away at pesky flies completely unbothered by the reverberations of the occasional bullet whizzing by her head. Echo was steady and ready the way a marshal’s horse should be.

I’d mount the saddle on Echo’s back every nightfall and ride her through the canyon past the giggles that evaporated into the starry skies and across the divide as I began my surveillance duties. I watched the children in the dusty old town running around barefoot with glass jars in their hands, eagerly trapping frozen moonlight that floated down from the atmosphere. The icy crags were a side effect of the planet splitting in two, tumbling down at twilight like ruins from what used to be our planet’s other half. We were used to being split down the middle in a lot of ways seeing as we lived in a canyon. 

Living in the west provided me with plenty of things to fawn over. To a big city boy the tumbleweed might be a pokey old nuisance of a thing, but to country folk like myself it was a reminder that even the most rugged had the chance to move where the wind would take me.

The divide was a disruption in our existence that was alarming and beautiful and the memory of how it all happened is as clear as the top layer of cream on a fresh bucket of milk. Imagine your granny taking a cleaver clean through an Ameraucana chicken’s neck. Now imagine that bird’s head staying put on the chopping block as the body of the wild poultry scampered across the unswept barn floor, with no direction or signs of stopping. Like a chicken’s head my little canyon town was bisected away from what its life used to be and what it was about to become. 

From the day of the split, confusion filled the glen with the arrival of orphaned children milling about in clothing quite outdated. I had seen snapshots of children dressed like this from hundreds of years ago on the walls back at the marshal’s office. The young girls' long hair were plaited down each side of their heads and were secured with lacy ribbon tied in a bow. Most of them donned Calico printed dresses and hand sewn bonnets that hugged their dirty faces, hiding the dark bags under their eyes and perhaps secrets that only time would unravel. The boys strode in with their highwater pants rising nearly three inches above their ankles. I had wondered if they’d walked through the ravine to get here but they were as arid as the packed dirt under our feet at the time. 

I observed that they all held the same consistent tremble that circulated through their bodies. The memory that lingered the most from the day that they arrived was how the cold radiated off of their skin.

The split drove all of the town into their homes leaving me to gaze into the eyes of the orphans as if they were alien beings here to take us to the other half of our world.  

“What’s yer name sweetheart?” 

I stood feet away from her and yet her chill roped me into its space. 

“Leslie Peters, officer.”

Her eyes brimmed like overfilled pails of water at the well pump. There was a sadness about her that choked up the next thing she told me.

“Here. I’m from here.” 

I scratched the stubble on my chin in thought, how could she be from here if none of us had ever seen her here before? 

****

I was able to house the children with families throughout the canyon with the goal of returning them back to their families. Months had passed and a few things became clear. It did not matter how much I interrogated the children, they said the same thing every time.

“My name is… I’m from here.”

Asking them questions made them madder than a rattlesnake that just got off a roller coaster, biting mad.

After the first night, the children found themselves beneath the starry skies skipping about with jars collecting the quadrants that started to come down from the sky the day they’d arrived. I assumed they’d found the jars in the cellars of the homes they were living in and figured there wasn't any harm in letting them from the little bit of joy they were able to collect for themselves. 

There was something poetically sad about orphans gathering the frozen moonlight in jars like they were catching fireflies in the summertime. They’d skip through the road with a jar in one hand and the lid in the other, smiling up at the bewitching moonbeams landing safely inside of the glass jars. Once they were filled, the children would promptly tighten the lid, sealing them shut. I learned the hard way that once the lid was on they became impregnable and impossible to open. 

I’d attempted to open hundreds of hermetically sealed jars and never once had I been able to crack one of them apart. I’d tried throwing them on the ground from above the gulch cliffs far above the cloudscape, meters high from the cragginess of the riverbed below and not once could I get a jar to shatter. The children weren’t the only ones magnetized by the jars filled up by the moonlight. Gravitational pulls were the kind of thing I wasn’t ever able to fight, and the jars felt like a desperate endeavor to have hope for these kids. 

I slowed Echo down with the a pull back of the reins, my spurs giving her sides a break for the time being. She preferred a slow gait anyway and I was happy to give it to her. Billy Jorgenson liked to run alongside Echo, keeping pace with her with ease. At twelve years old, Billy already had the shadow of blonde fuzz on his top lip and shoulders as wide as any bull on the land. He extended his brawny arm my way, gifting me with his collected treasure of frozen moonbeams.

“Hey Francis, can you take this moon jar?”

“Sure Billy, I’ll take the jar. Did any of the other kids have any luck opening it?”

I didn’t want to get anyone’s hopes up and I could trust that Billy would keep his lips sealed tight like a wax plugged whiskey bottle.

Billy’s shoulders pulled up in a shrug like a marionette. A smile exploded across his face, drawing a line to each of his perfect dimples. Billy told me once that he wanted to be a marshal just like me because of the way that I had tried to help many of his friends. The kid knew something I didn’t and he was holding a secret in behind the divots on his cheeks so tightly I thought he was sucking on a sour lemon.

“We got everybody on this row of houses and the next two over to try. None of us could get it to budge, Francis."

When I was small my grandmother would remark under her breath, “Through the eyes of a child…” as if it were a maxim for how children could see what wasn’t always seeable. Billy was always bringing me jars to investigate and I continued to stockpile them back at my old worn down marshal’s office. 

Billy handed the jar over, placing it in my ungloved hand. It was cold, but not the kind of cold that burns you like when your tongue sticks to a frozen pole in December. It gave me the kind of chill that the first snow of the season does, it left the air feeling a certain kind of way. 

I tucked the icy incandescent jar into the leather satchel harnessed to Echo’s saddle next to four others. 

I hated to admit it, but the jars were so familiar to me when I held them, as they were similar to the kind of glass that my grandmother used to put preserves in when I was a small boy. I shook my head at the vague memory, as they were few and far between and my gran had been gone for well over forty years now.

“Thank you, Billy.”

Billy nodded with pride at a job well done, skipping back to his group of friends, tapping Leslie on the shoulder. I watched as he whispered in her ear, her eyes pulling up to mine with an electric wildness and knowing. That exchange boiled a curiosity in me that had me thinking the kids definitely knew something I didn’t.

My prying thoughts were interrupted by the children dancing around in unity under the magical moonlight snowing down on them. I’d marshaled this town every night for the past light-year with the sole responsibility of keeping watch over the children. Making note of the boys and girls that filled the jars, and extra notes on those that tried to open them trying to find some correlation between the two.

I wondered if the split caused a division of possessions like the child of a divorce. Were we the sole custodians of the children now? Did the other planet get all the winters since we did not? And what about the rainstorms? I hadn’t felt the smattering of raindrops on my face in so long that I daydreamed about stepping out into a summer rainstorm. Moonbeams were the only kind of frigidity we experienced anymore, and the kids were eager to capture it because of the familiarity the moonlight seemed to hold for them.

The clanking of the moon jars gave away the fruits of my sector surveillance before I could tie Echo back up at the hitching post outside of my office. The light that illuminated my office from the sealed jars was like missing persons cases waiting to be solved. No need for overhead lights or a table lamp, the abundance of moonbeam jars provided enough of an aura to make do. 

“Whatcha got there marshal?” 

The voice came from the one and only prisoner within the cell in my town’s precinct, Buzz Clampton. He was a drunkard that often spoke of the future as if he were all knowing and contained the key to all that happened during the divide.

“Moon jars, Buzz. Same as every night, more moon jars.”

A chuckle tumbled like a weed from his mouth, all dry and scratchy like. 

“Any luck openin’ one of ‘em up Francis?”

I wish I could have given him an enthusiastic yes, but like any other night the answer was always solemn no. I shook my head in defeat not worried that Buzz would tell anyone about my disposition as he was always in the cell.

“Francis, the world’s a little different than it used to be. Sometimes glass breaks. Sometimes it holds precious cargo and stays intact. Keep your head down and you’ll figure out how them jars open.”

I knew that Buzz was crazier than a wild horse that had never been broken, but the words precious cargo flitted through my head. Not one for believing in premonitions and future tellings, I decided then and there I’d test Buzz to see what he knew about why these kids were here.

“I dropped one of the jars accidentally when I was out riding Echo the other night. It was the strangest thing, Buzz, it didn’t crack or break. It should have busted into a million shards with how fast the jar had been thrown.”

Buzz nodded while producing a wicked grin.

“Francis, you ever wonder what happens to memories when we leave this place? Sure they might get passed down from generation to generation, but that ain’t nothing but secondhand news. That ain’t the original memory. I’m thinking them icy crags falling from the night are the moon purging herself of memories she can’t hold no more. I betcha them kids are trapping their history in a jar is all.”

Buzz believed that his opinion was the truth, and that I was dumb enough to accept them as I would the word of the Bible. The moonlight and gravity were things I could trust because they were forces that held more value than drunk old Buzz himself. Buzz hiccuped and belched as his head dropped back against the bars with a loud clang. His head must’ve been hollow with a sound like that.

“Talk about a thought experiment, to not realize they’re holding the good old days right in their chubby little hands.” 

My guts roiled at the thought of kids like Billy and Leslie being toyed with. They had no memory from where they’d come from. 

But what if Buzz was right?

They all desperately filled their moon jars every night to no avail, and they never wavered in their desires to capture beams of light. Could the divide have caused a separation of memory and person? Were they chasing the moon so desperately to find the recollections that belonged to them? 

I grabbed the jar closest to me as a shiver melted down my spine. I gave it hearty twist. A wave of nostalgia gripped my insides as I watched the image of an older woman’s aged hands spooning halved peaches into quart-sized jars flash across the ceiling. I caught Buzz bright eyed and in shock as words spoke across the room.

“Frankie, come over here and help me can these peaches.” 

I searched the notes in my head for the names of the kids in the gulch. Thomas, Caroline, James, Lilah, Billy, and so many others, but there was not a single Frankie. 

New sounds spun around me, a child making pretend shooting sounds with his mouth. 

“Frankie, what do you suppose you’ll be when you grow up?” 

The boy erupted with laughter when a man with kind eyes tickled his sides. The eyes sort of looked like mine, slightly gray on the edges and bright blue in the middle. 

“Don’t be silly daddy, I’m gonna be a lawman! I’m gonna take down criminals!”

 The answer hit me like a cast iron skillet upside the head. The kids couldn’t open the jars because they hadn’t found theirs yet! All this time the lost memories of children shone on me every time I unloaded the moon jars in my office. 

“Well, I’ll be. I guess I ain’t so crazy after all now am I Marshal?”

Without thinking I released Buzz from the cell and shouted at him to help me gather the jars up because I had an idea. 

****

I pushed Echo as fast as she could go, shouting out to the children to gather in the town circle. Once they all seemed to have gathered I gave orders as quickly as I could as we dumped the jars out in one big heap. Their frozen state pulsed out around all of us, dropping the temperature of the air significantly.

“Billy, come over here and help me. Everyone line up. We’re gonna do this one jar at a time now.”

I instructed Billy to hand the jar to a child until the right person came across it. 

“Francis, what do you mean? How will we know?”

“Trust me you’ll know Billy.” 

Billy grinned that dimpled smile of his and got to work. Forty kids made their way through the first jar, then fifty, then twenty more when it happened. 

Laughter and subtle incantations of bedtime stories played from the jar as it illuminated from a young girl’s hands. The visions of a childhood lost, stolen, flashed before us filling the canyon with light and sound. We watched as she spun on a merry-go-round and shouted for her dog, Charlie, with shrieks of delight. Scuffed knees from bicycle spills and ribbons fluttering from her hair had shot around on the chests of the other children in a whirlwind as if I had watched her grow up before my own eyes.

This continued on with a boy who’d been through the line for the fourth time on a whole new jar. I saw a boy running with friends down the sidewalk as the moon chased them through a neighborhood. They came to a quick pause and craned their necks, their eyes locked with mine as if they could see me standing here in the middle of the town surrounded by children.

My lungs forgot to breathe momentarily as I saw that it was Leslie and so many other children but from another time staring back at me. It was odd to see two sets of children eyeing me in wait with such pride at discovering the moonbeams were actual memories. They waved at me excitedly as the moon cast them in the most beautiful light, they appeared to be so happy. 

“Billy, is that you and the others?”

I glanced at the live children before me when Billy gave me a knowing nod. The giggles from the memory poured their warmth over me releasing me from the chill in the canyon. One of the memories beckoned to me, and his face was that of the boy I saw back in my office. 

It was me.

“Hey everybody it’s Frankie! Look at you, you’re all grown up. I bet you go by Francis now, don’t ya?” 

Cold sweat covered my skin and my heart warmed. The expanse of the moon that blanketed across the tops of the sun-bleached wooden homes at night acted like a projector upon the roofs, where the stars could dance and align in celestial artistry, and the children of then and now could play together with their jars of moon memories.



There once was a Lion who lived in the plains of Africa Who loves the muffins. Every day he will raid The pastry store for his daily ration of muffins. Than the Lion smile “They won’t know if I took a little, more” the more he took the greedier he got.

At first he took a little, but every day It grew more and more. The other animals, his friends warned him. Mr. Elephant “Come buddy, what do you think you’re doing. Come and join us and have a Buffet of fruit” The lion shook his head no. 

Mr. Lion smiled “I’ll be fine don’t you worry I’ll get you a muffin as well,” Mr. Elephant slap this head and went back to his dinner. The next day pass this time Mr. Hippo stop him “come I will help you sit with me and enjoy the mud bath, and let’s take your mind off those muffins before those humans get you,” So Mr. Lion sits, but water did not agree with him. 

So yet again another failure for the smell was to alluring, so Mr. Lion soaking wet left. Next day The Parrots came “hey Brother L Forget those muffins and dance with us” So he went dancing.

 But soon enough he danced his way back to the village. Next up were are the Baboons “come on buddy we will help you, sleep meditation that will help you indeed” so he thought about it, and went with them. But soon enough that failed as well as Mr. Lion sleeps walks to the muffin shop.

As the day’s past his Friends tried their best, but all attempts ended in failure. Then one day an airplane dropped a crate of exotic pastries. Mr. Elephant saw from a distance and knew that crate was trouble, quickly he yelled “Stop” but slipped on some bananas. He looked up only to see it was too late. One bite Took Mr. Lion to another world of taste. It was the best taste he had in a long time for they were fluffy exotic muffins.

For Mr. Lion loved muffins even more so much from that one bite, he one day gathered all his friends “farewell to you all, as I begin my journey for new tasty muffins” all his friends look down as he walked off into the village. Disguised as no other than a pastry chef. The disguise work perfectly enough for him to sneak on to a plane for his love of muffins was great. He loves muffins so much he travels the world, and began his crime spree of muffins.

Through the years he out wit, he outfoxed every pastry owner in the world. For no one suspects a lion for a pastry chef.

As Mr. Lion sat in his hidden house surround by muffins, he thought of how he was by himself. No friends were around to share his Joy, So one day he grew bored and tried to be a real lion. There was only one problem he hated the taste of meat, so he sat and thought how he would change his ways.

For the first time in all his years he isolated himself in solitude to focus on the ways in being a lion.

After one month of training in the mountains he was almost ready to travel back to Africa. To join his friends again, to stay in the wild where he belongs.

While he was in his place of meditation, something new enter the area, he hid for he still was wanted Rogue Pastry Chef. Then he noticed a house that was just built nearby, quickly he slipped away in fear. Soon enough 

he took no mind to it and continued his studies and focused his mind to eat only meat.

Until he smelled a familiar aroma as he walked back home one day. 

The aroma was unmistakable it was a batch of muffins, his mouth got watery.

Than when he was about to get up and run away from temptation he thought, this could be part of my training.

For the last week of his training, morning till night he attempted to focus his thoughts on how to hunt. Yet every day he sat closer and closer to the house which had an aroma of baked goods. The pressure smelling those fresh muffins that week grew and grew. But he kept saying to himself “I got this, this should help me grow stronger. Well, let me just sit a little closer, I’m sure that wouldn’t hurt” yet as he sat closer he’s hunger grew for muffins once again.

Every part of the day was a different brand, before long his meditation slipped away. As his cravings got out of hand. The crows who sat nearby called to him “don’t go, you made so much progress” more crows surrounded him saying the same thing. Yet Mr. lion looks at them “I’ll be fine this is part of my training” they all looked at him and slapped their wings to their beaks.

As his only thoughts were with thoughts of muffins as he sat closer with each day that week.

On that last day his mouth grew even more watery, till he could not stand it no more.

Instead of going to home that day, he went to the house that was filled with the delicious smell of muffins. The crows came again “Stop, Stop this has gone too far, go to the plane. This is a trap for sure the bounty on you has tripped and more” the Lion laughed. Then he smiled at the crows “It has been a while since I grabbed a muffin, no one remembers the rogue pastry chef. One last muffin Heist could not hurt” all the crows sigh, as they watched him creep to the house.

Mr. Lion looked for the owner but the owner was nowhere to be found. He thought this was perfect, those muffins were begging to be enjoyed.

As he peers through the window, he can see was several batches of different brands of muffins. One of every flavor, then the crows started cawing again. As they flapped “stop don’t do it” yet there caws went on death ears. As the lion could not resist, he eyes were keen in to the muffins in sight. He pounced and leaps forward as the crows closed their eyes.

As he gorged himself in all those muffins, he heard a crack. As he lifted his head, he heard a snap. Up he flew up right into a trap, as he flew into a huge bowl of batter. He frantically looked left and right, unsure of what was going on. 

Only to see coming out from all directions the pastry chefs that were hunting him down. All of them were smiling, as the crows caw from the side “we knew it, we told you. We knew it, we told you.” the lion growled as he looked at them. They covered him in batter so he smiled a little, for it was tasty.

The Head pastry Chef of the all the country’s announced, to punish this lion for all his crimes there’s only one thing to do. Mr. Lion gulped yet he saw Him smiled “we watched you hoping you would succeed. Yet you failed and didn’t live to our expectations” the lion look down sad.

The Head Pastry Chef announced “since you failed to forgo your ways, I could think of no other punishment that suits you. We shall make you into a muffin.” Mr. Lion's face turned white, as he held his heart tight for he was sitting in batter.

That fateful day, they introduced a new item to the menu around the world muffin-lion. Back home in Africa The Parrots, Hippo, Baboons and Mr. Elephant looked from afar asking the crows nearby “Are they really eating the Mr. Lion” the crows look and laughed. He looked at them all and smiled “such a fate would be easy but no.

No, the real tragedy of what happened to Mr. Lion is that was so greedy to the end. Mr. Loin would spend the rest of his days dressed as a muffin as an attraction for the new muffins brands. Unable to eat or smell any though as he forced to eat vegetables as penance. And look at him right there advertising the next sale” That crow laugh some more. As all his friends laughed, the crow smiled “where we can now officially call him the Muffin Lion, but I guess that’s what happens when you’re a greedy lion. When you’re a Muffin Lion that can’t eat muffins is a true punishment.” Mr. Lion filled with regret wishing he listened to his friends. Now stuck wearing a muffin suit advertising sales to pay back his eating spree and wishing he baked muffins instead of taking muffins.




A mom’s job is never truly finished—Elise knew this instinctively when her son was born. For at least the hundredth time, she sat next to his bed in that chair mending his quilt. There was no way of knowing, the day she bought it at a flea market, that it would become her son’s most valued possession. 

To call it a quilt stretched the definition as it was nothing more than a thousand pieces of oddly shaped swatches stitched together, layer after layer, until the whole of it was thick enough to hold in the warmth of a small boy's body as he drifted off to sleep. The person who pieced together this labor of love must have spent countless hours shaping the useless remnants into a usable blanket. Elise felt it was her duty to repair the inevitable rips as an homage to the unknown creator and as a manifestation of her adoration for the little boy who cherished it.

“I love how cool it feels when I first get into bed,” her little man observed the first night he wrapped himself in the old quilt. “But before long, it warms up, and I’m snug as a bug in a rug. Where did you get it?” 

The question was one whose answer was too mundane to inflict on a wide eyed little boy, so Elise stretched the truth just a little. “It was brought over on the Mayflower by the Pilgrims,” she answered to her son's delight. “It’s made from pieces of fabric from all over Europe and is the first blanket used by the first Americans.”

It was just a little white lie, but it was also the beginning of a cherished tradition. As stitches unraveled and as tears ripped the quilt and the little boy's heart, Elise sat by his bed and mended the heirloom. Then she would continue the "true" story of how the quilt had found its way to her son. 

“During the Revolutionary War, your quilt was captured by General Cornwallis and used to keep his legs warm on the cold winter nights.” Elise said, weaving a story as intricate as the blanket itself. “It wasn’t until the surrender at Yorktown that it was returned.”

“Yorktown?”

“Yes, Yorktown,'' she said smiling, “George Washington took it from Cornwallis and used it during his eight years as president.”

“You mean my blanket has been to the White House?” 

“Of course it has,” Elise answered with a wink. “But not because of George Washington, silly. John Adams was the first president to live in the White House.”

“Who then, Mom? ``The little boy asked., “Who took my blanket to the White House?”

“That’s a story for later,” Elise replied, kissing her son on his forehead. “Now you get some sleep, and I’ll continue the story next time.”

Elise, unfortunately, had far too many opportunities to continue the blanket’s tale as her son was given to debilitating headaches. At first, the doctors thought he was prone to systemic migraines, but the truth was much worse. Many nights, too many, the little boy would curl up in pain, his teeth clenched in a faux smile. The headaches were excruciating, only soothed by a cold wash cloth, his mother’s gentle voice, and the telling of the quilt’s tale as he drifted off to sleep. 

There were also many a night where Elise would sit with her son as he slept, meticulously piecing back together the tears that threatened the blanket entirely, wishing there was a way she could also mend her son. The room would be completely quiet save for the sound of Elise’s song. It was something she had done since she was his age. Inadvertently yet intentionally she would let the air slip through her lips, creating a tune just for him that would live for that moment, replaced the next time by one equally beautiful and equally unique.

“As it turns out, the first time the quilt made it to the White House was just after Abraham Lincoln was elected president,” Elise said the next night, continuing the story from where they’d left off. The pain had become more frequent and more intense, requiring more chapters more often. The story's continuation, however, had the desired results, a distraction and a smile.

“Abraham Lincoln, he used my quilt, too?” her son asked, too young to doubt his mother. 

“Of course he did,” Elise responded, tickling her son just to hear him laugh. “It’s a little known fact, but Mount Rushmore was actually created to show all of the presidents who used your blanket.”  

Elise always had a basin of cold water by her side whenever she sat with her son. Very early on she learned that the coolness of the cloth would help quiet the pain in his head. It was her greatest joy to moisten the cloth keeping it cold throughout her story. The little boy’s head still throbbed, but while his mom was telling the story she would gently wipe his forehead with the cold cloth, and it was almost as if he forgot the pain for a time. If all went well, he would fall asleep listening to the tale of his blanket, as sleep was becoming his only relief from the pain.

“Did you know your blanket went to the moon?” Elise asked one day when her son seemed particularly down. “Neil Armstrong may have been the first man to set foot on the moon, but he laid out your quilt so he and Buzz Aldrin could have a picnic.” 

The idea of two astronauts having a picnic on the moon resulted in spontaneous laughter for both mother and son. 

“Is Buzz Lightyear named after Buzz Aldrin?” he asked his mom, as both continued to laugh.

“As a matter of fact he was,” Elise replied with a smile. “If you must know, Buzz Aldrin presented your quilt to Buzz Lightyear as a gift which means your blanket has been…”

“To infinity and beyond!” 

“Exactly,” Elise confirmed as she refreshed his cloth and placed it back on his head.

Day after day she would take her boy to doctors and then specialists and eventually to the hospital. Then, night after night, she would sit by his bed and tell the story of the quilt. Elise did everything she could to stretch out the story, and as each new adventure was passed from mother to son so too was hope, in the only way she knew how.  

The night that she finished the story was, in so many ways, just like most of the other nights. Elise was home in her favorite chair next to her son’s bed. Her breathing was labored and her voice unsteady. “And then I stopped by a flea market on my way home from the store and there it was, your beautiful, wonderful blanket. I knew you must have it, so I scooped it up, paid the nice woman, and brought it home to you.”

Tears filled Elise’s eyes as she sewed the last stitch on the old quilt. Holding it up, she remembered the first time her son covered himself with the blanket. I love how cool it feels when I first get into bed.

“It’s finally fixed. It’s perfect.” Elise said out loud, tears continuing to flow. “I love how cool it feels, too.” 

Summoning every bit of her strength, she lay the beloved blanket on the empty bed in front of her. 

Being a mom is a job that is never truly finished, at least she had hoped so. With nothing else left to do for her son, she sat back in the chair and silently sobbed. 


My horse Echo, idled at the hitching post with her reins looped loosely around it, as she wasn’t the kind of horse that I needed to tie down to keep near. Shotguns were pulled at high noon around these parts and her tail whipped away at pesky flies completely unbothered by the reverberations of the occasional bullet whizzing by her head. Echo was steady and ready the way a marshal’s horse should be.

I’d mount the saddle on Echo’s back every nightfall and ride her through the canyon past the giggles that evaporated into the starry skies and across the divide as I began my surveillance duties. I watched the children in the dusty old town running around barefoot with glass jars in their hands, eagerly trapping frozen moonlight that floated down from the atmosphere. The icy crags were a side effect of the planet splitting in two, tumbling down at twilight like ruins from what used to be our planet’s other half. We were used to being split down the middle in a lot of ways seeing as we lived in a canyon. 

Living in the west provided me with plenty of things to fawn over. To a big city boy the tumbleweed might be a pokey old nuisance of a thing, but to country folk like myself it was a reminder that even the most rugged had the chance to move where the wind would take me.

The divide was a disruption in our existence that was alarming and beautiful and the memory of how it all happened is as clear as the top layer of cream on a fresh bucket of milk. Imagine your granny taking a cleaver clean through an Ameraucana chicken’s neck. Now imagine that bird’s head staying put on the chopping block as the body of the wild poultry scampered across the unswept barn floor, with no direction or signs of stopping. Like a chicken’s head my little canyon town was bisected away from what its life used to be and what it was about to become. 

From the day of the split, confusion filled the glen with the arrival of orphaned children milling about in clothing quite outdated. I had seen snapshots of children dressed like this from hundreds of years ago on the walls back at the marshal’s office. The young girls' long hair were plaited down each side of their heads and were secured with lacy ribbon tied in a bow. Most of them donned Calico printed dresses and hand sewn bonnets that hugged their dirty faces, hiding the dark bags under their eyes and perhaps secrets that only time would unravel. The boys strode in with their highwater pants rising nearly three inches above their ankles. I had wondered if they’d walked through the ravine to get here but they were as arid as the packed dirt under our feet at the time. 

I observed that they all held the same consistent tremble that circulated through their bodies. The memory that lingered the most from the day that they arrived was how the cold radiated off of their skin.

The split drove all of the town into their homes leaving me to gaze into the eyes of the orphans as if they were alien beings here to take us to the other half of our world.  

“What’s yer name sweetheart?” 

I stood feet away from her and yet her chill roped me into its space. 

“Leslie Peters, officer.”

Her eyes brimmed like overfilled pails of water at the well pump. There was a sadness about her that choked up the next thing she told me.

“Here. I’m from here.” 

I scratched the stubble on my chin in thought, how could she be from here if none of us had ever seen her here before? 

****

I was able to house the children with families throughout the canyon with the goal of returning them back to their families. Months had passed and a few things became clear. It did not matter how much I interrogated the children, they said the same thing every time.

“My name is… I’m from here.”

Asking them questions made them madder than a rattlesnake that just got off a roller coaster, biting mad.

After the first night, the children found themselves beneath the starry skies skipping about with jars collecting the quadrants that started to come down from the sky the day they’d arrived. I assumed they’d found the jars in the cellars of the homes they were living in and figured there wasn't any harm in letting them from the little bit of joy they were able to collect for themselves. 

There was something poetically sad about orphans gathering the frozen moonlight in jars like they were catching fireflies in the summertime. They’d skip through the road with a jar in one hand and the lid in the other, smiling up at the bewitching moonbeams landing safely inside of the glass jars. Once they were filled, the children would promptly tighten the lid, sealing them shut. I learned the hard way that once the lid was on they became impregnable and impossible to open. 

I’d attempted to open hundreds of hermetically sealed jars and never once had I been able to crack one of them apart. I’d tried throwing them on the ground from above the gulch cliffs far above the cloudscape, meters high from the cragginess of the riverbed below and not once could I get a jar to shatter. The children weren’t the only ones magnetized by the jars filled up by the moonlight. Gravitational pulls were the kind of thing I wasn’t ever able to fight, and the jars felt like a desperate endeavor to have hope for these kids. 

I slowed Echo down with the a pull back of the reins, my spurs giving her sides a break for the time being. She preferred a slow gait anyway and I was happy to give it to her. Billy Jorgenson liked to run alongside Echo, keeping pace with her with ease. At twelve years old, Billy already had the shadow of blonde fuzz on his top lip and shoulders as wide as any bull on the land. He extended his brawny arm my way, gifting me with his collected treasure of frozen moonbeams.

“Hey Francis, can you take this moon jar?”

“Sure Billy, I’ll take the jar. Did any of the other kids have any luck opening it?”

I didn’t want to get anyone’s hopes up and I could trust that Billy would keep his lips sealed tight like a wax plugged whiskey bottle.

Billy’s shoulders pulled up in a shrug like a marionette. A smile exploded across his face, drawing a line to each of his perfect dimples. Billy told me once that he wanted to be a marshal just like me because of the way that I had tried to help many of his friends. The kid knew something I didn’t and he was holding a secret in behind the divots on his cheeks so tightly I thought he was sucking on a sour lemon.

“We got everybody on this row of houses and the next two over to try. None of us could get it to budge, Francis."

When I was small my grandmother would remark under her breath, “Through the eyes of a child…” as if it were a maxim for how children could see what wasn’t always seeable. Billy was always bringing me jars to investigate and I continued to stockpile them back at my old worn down marshal’s office. 

Billy handed the jar over, placing it in my ungloved hand. It was cold, but not the kind of cold that burns you like when your tongue sticks to a frozen pole in December. It gave me the kind of chill that the first snow of the season does, it left the air feeling a certain kind of way. 

I tucked the icy incandescent jar into the leather satchel harnessed to Echo’s saddle next to four others. 

I hated to admit it, but the jars were so familiar to me when I held them, as they were similar to the kind of glass that my grandmother used to put preserves in when I was a small boy. I shook my head at the vague memory, as they were few and far between and my gran had been gone for well over forty years now.

“Thank you, Billy.”

Billy nodded with pride at a job well done, skipping back to his group of friends, tapping Leslie on the shoulder. I watched as he whispered in her ear, her eyes pulling up to mine with an electric wildness and knowing. That exchange boiled a curiosity in me that had me thinking the kids definitely knew something I didn’t.

My prying thoughts were interrupted by the children dancing around in unity under the magical moonlight snowing down on them. I’d marshaled this town every night for the past light-year with the sole responsibility of keeping watch over the children. Making note of the boys and girls that filled the jars, and extra notes on those that tried to open them trying to find some correlation between the two.

I wondered if the split caused a division of possessions like the child of a divorce. Were we the sole custodians of the children now? Did the other planet get all the winters since we did not? And what about the rainstorms? I hadn’t felt the smattering of raindrops on my face in so long that I daydreamed about stepping out into a summer rainstorm. Moonbeams were the only kind of frigidity we experienced anymore, and the kids were eager to capture it because of the familiarity the moonlight seemed to hold for them.

The clanking of the moon jars gave away the fruits of my sector surveillance before I could tie Echo back up at the hitching post outside of my office. The light that illuminated my office from the sealed jars was like missing persons cases waiting to be solved. No need for overhead lights or a table lamp, the abundance of moonbeam jars provided enough of an aura to make do. 

“Whatcha got there marshal?” 

The voice came from the one and only prisoner within the cell in my town’s precinct, Buzz Clampton. He was a drunkard that often spoke of the future as if he were all knowing and contained the key to all that happened during the divide.

“Moon jars, Buzz. Same as every night, more moon jars.”

A chuckle tumbled like a weed from his mouth, all dry and scratchy like. 

“Any luck openin’ one of ‘em up Francis?”

I wish I could have given him an enthusiastic yes, but like any other night the answer was always solemn no. I shook my head in defeat not worried that Buzz would tell anyone about my disposition as he was always in the cell.

“Francis, the world’s a little different than it used to be. Sometimes glass breaks. Sometimes it holds precious cargo and stays intact. Keep your head down and you’ll figure out how them jars open.”

I knew that Buzz was crazier than a wild horse that had never been broken, but the words precious cargo flitted through my head. Not one for believing in premonitions and future tellings, I decided then and there I’d test Buzz to see what he knew about why these kids were here.

“I dropped one of the jars accidentally when I was out riding Echo the other night. It was the strangest thing, Buzz, it didn’t crack or break. It should have busted into a million shards with how fast the jar had been thrown.”

Buzz nodded while producing a wicked grin.

“Francis, you ever wonder what happens to memories when we leave this place? Sure they might get passed down from generation to generation, but that ain’t nothing but secondhand news. That ain’t the original memory. I’m thinking them icy crags falling from the night are the moon purging herself of memories she can’t hold no more. I betcha them kids are trapping their history in a jar is all.”

Buzz believed that his opinion was the truth, and that I was dumb enough to accept them as I would the word of the Bible. The moonlight and gravity were things I could trust because they were forces that held more value than drunk old Buzz himself. Buzz hiccuped and belched as his head dropped back against the bars with a loud clang. His head must’ve been hollow with a sound like that.

“Talk about a thought experiment, to not realize they’re holding the good old days right in their chubby little hands.” 

My guts roiled at the thought of kids like Billy and Leslie being toyed with. They had no memory from where they’d come from. 

But what if Buzz was right?

They all desperately filled their moon jars every night to no avail, and they never wavered in their desires to capture beams of light. Could the divide have caused a separation of memory and person? Were they chasing the moon so desperately to find the recollections that belonged to them? 

I grabbed the jar closest to me as a shiver melted down my spine. I gave it hearty twist. A wave of nostalgia gripped my insides as I watched the image of an older woman’s aged hands spooning halved peaches into quart-sized jars flash across the ceiling. I caught Buzz bright eyed and in shock as words spoke across the room.

“Frankie, come over here and help me can these peaches.” 

I searched the notes in my head for the names of the kids in the gulch. Thomas, Caroline, James, Lilah, Billy, and so many others, but there was not a single Frankie. 

New sounds spun around me, a child making pretend shooting sounds with his mouth. 

“Frankie, what do you suppose you’ll be when you grow up?” 

The boy erupted with laughter when a man with kind eyes tickled his sides. The eyes sort of looked like mine, slightly gray on the edges and bright blue in the middle. 

“Don’t be silly daddy, I’m gonna be a lawman! I’m gonna take down criminals!”

 The answer hit me like a cast iron skillet upside the head. The kids couldn’t open the jars because they hadn’t found theirs yet! All this time the lost memories of children shone on me every time I unloaded the moon jars in my office. 

“Well, I’ll be. I guess I ain’t so crazy after all now am I Marshal?”

Without thinking I released Buzz from the cell and shouted at him to help me gather the jars up because I had an idea. 

****

I pushed Echo as fast as she could go, shouting out to the children to gather in the town circle. Once they all seemed to have gathered I gave orders as quickly as I could as we dumped the jars out in one big heap. Their frozen state pulsed out around all of us, dropping the temperature of the air significantly.

“Billy, come over here and help me. Everyone line up. We’re gonna do this one jar at a time now.”

I instructed Billy to hand the jar to a child until the right person came across it. 

“Francis, what do you mean? How will we know?”

“Trust me you’ll know Billy.” 

Billy grinned that dimpled smile of his and got to work. Forty kids made their way through the first jar, then fifty, then twenty more when it happened. 

Laughter and subtle incantations of bedtime stories played from the jar as it illuminated from a young girl’s hands. The visions of a childhood lost, stolen, flashed before us filling the canyon with light and sound. We watched as she spun on a merry-go-round and shouted for her dog, Charlie, with shrieks of delight. Scuffed knees from bicycle spills and ribbons fluttering from her hair had shot around on the chests of the other children in a whirlwind as if I had watched her grow up before my own eyes.

This continued on with a boy who’d been through the line for the fourth time on a whole new jar. I saw a boy running with friends down the sidewalk as the moon chased them through a neighborhood. They came to a quick pause and craned their necks, their eyes locked with mine as if they could see me standing here in the middle of the town surrounded by children.

My lungs forgot to breathe momentarily as I saw that it was Leslie and so many other children but from another time staring back at me. It was odd to see two sets of children eyeing me in wait with such pride at discovering the moonbeams were actual memories. They waved at me excitedly as the moon cast them in the most beautiful light, they appeared to be so happy. 

“Billy, is that you and the others?”

I glanced at the live children before me when Billy gave me a knowing nod. The giggles from the memory poured their warmth over me releasing me from the chill in the canyon. One of the memories beckoned to me, and his face was that of the boy I saw back in my office. 

It was me.

“Hey everybody it’s Frankie! Look at you, you’re all grown up. I bet you go by Francis now, don’t ya?” 

Cold sweat covered my skin and my heart warmed. The expanse of the moon that blanketed across the tops of the sun-bleached wooden homes at night acted like a projector upon the roofs, where the stars could dance and align in celestial artistry, and the children of then and now could play together with their jars of moon memories.


Maybury was a quiet place. Five and a half thousand people lived in it, but it wound a long way out into Nevada desert. Less a town, more a collection of villages scattered through the prickly-pear cacti and low scrubland. 

Prometheus arrived in the mid-afternoon when the sun was patiently cracking open the sidewalk. Even the weeds between the cracks were limp with heat. The few people out kept their heads down, hats tilted forward to hide their faces. When he killed the engine, he could almost hear the backs of their necks sizzling.

He got out and shut the door. The car settled back onto its haunches. He'd driven a long way with it, this rusting black wreck, and this was its final stop. 

“Prometheus?”

A tall, rangy woman emerged from one of the closest houses. It was an old thing, first-settler style, all wooden porches and scorched doors. She looked like she could be first-settler herself. Her pale hair was braided back from her face, shaded by a black cowboy hat. Her boots were leather. Prometheus saw the marks of spurs.

"Hello,” he said. He was not surprised she knew his name. Maybury was one of those places, the kind that remembered what came before them. The new America, glass and steel and honking yellow taxis, wouldn’t recognise him. He could hide well enough there, but he belonged here. 

“You might wanna take that coat off,” she said. “It’s awful hot.”

Prometheus looked down. His tan trenchcoat was rolled to the elbows, the one concession he’d made to the heat. His shirt sleeves were still cuffed at the wrists with small golden pins. They reflected bright and hot into his eyes. 

The woman watched him a moment longer. His skin was sun-stained, grey beard trimmed and hair curly. He had a curious air to him. Something ancient in his stillness.

“I’m Cass,” she said, breaking the buzzing silence.

“A lovely name,” he said. “Greek. I knew a Cassandra once. She was very kind.”

“Nice to meet you. You’re rentin’ the old place off Main?”

Prometheus looked upwards. She followed his gaze. Two birds were circling overhead, so high they were mere black specks in the sun, but he seemed to know what they were. When he returned his face to hers there was a weariness in those grey eyes.

She said, “I’ll show you to it." 

There was not, Prometheus saw, much to Maybury. They passed house after house, the yards filled with rusting metal or strangling weeds. Once they walked by a playground. It was clean and colourful, the plastic stark against the scrub behind it, and utterly empty.

“The jackrabbits like it,” Cass said, catching his glance. “Ain’t many kids around. People sorta end up here, you know? No one moves in. They just return.”

He nodded once. He didn’t seem to be sweating even though Cass was wiping her brow in denim shorts and a sleeveless top. Unnerved, she said, “Your Cass sounded nice.”

“She wasn’t anyone’s. Humans-” and he stopped abruptly. They both stood still. The desert blew a hot wind around their ankles. 

“Go on,” she said. “We get all sorts round these parts. Only thing you’ll catch hell for is blowin’ off a neighbour needin’ help.”

“Hell has already caught me,” he said shortly, and resumed walking. “But I appreciate the warning. It reflects well on people to show hospitality to strangers."

"Mmm. We put the effort in. Never wanted it be an old Sodom and Gomorrah kinda place."

He swept her a glance. She shrugged. "My daddy was the religious type. Guess some of it got through."

"I suppose my people would have called you Baucis," he said after a moment. "Although we're a long way from Phrygia."

"What's that?"

"Nothing," he said, half to himself, half to her. She recognised the expression of someone adrift in memories and let him be. 

They stopped at last outside a rickety house. A swingbench groaned on its raised porch. The white paint was flaking from the wood. 

Cass gave him the keys and he went calmly up the steps to creak the door open. His trench coat rustled like wings. She glanced up to the sky and saw the black spots in the sun had dropped closer, still circling slowly. Despite the heat, she had the oddest urge to shiver. 

Inside the house, Prometheus stood in the living room. On the far wall of the living room, there was a faded white mark where a large cross had been taken down. There was a nail mark in the plaster where Jesus' head would had been. 

From the roof, there was the scratching of talons. 

"Is it close?" Cass asked. She had come up the steps behind him and was standing in the doorway. "Judgement Day? Whatever you call it. Ragnarok."

"That was the Scandinavians," he said, and turned to her. Her hat cast a sharp shadow across the bridge of her nose and pointed chin. She seemed very calm in asking the question, as if the answer would come as no surprise. "What were you hoping for?"

"Me, I'm not so sure. My ma wanted to stay for it. She said she wanted to see the angels walking the streets. Said the sidewalk'd crack from their light. My old neighbour, he thinks the stars are gonna fall and we'll go out and watch 'em. And me, well." She shrugged unselfconsciously. "Guess I wanted to see somethin' holy. Somethin' more divine than a preacher in a pulpit. But I don't know where you fit into that."

"The end is the end," Prometheus said mildly. "If you want to catch the stars, you can." 

"Mm. They'd be awful hot to hold, I bet."

He nodded and began at last to remove his cufflinks. He placed them carefully on the low table, their shine muted by the wood, and rolled up his sleeves. 

There were marks on his forearms. Cass had never seen manacle scars, but she knew instinctively that was what they were. Twin bands of shiny scar tissue circled his wrists. He saw her looking. 

"Somebody do that to you?" she said. 

"A friend. It was a long time ago now."

"You deserve it?" 

"I did." 

Her chin dipped in acknowledgment. His scars didn't scare her. She'd seen worse before. The only thing that unnerved her was the scratching on the roof. It sounded like birds were trying to peck through. 

"I'd offer you coffee," Prometheus said. "But the birds will be here soon and I don't want you to see it."

Cass saw a resignation in his face. The noise from above was increasing. "Thought they were eagles at first. When I saw them circling."

That earned her a grim, tired smile. "Lots of people do. You know what they are?" 

"Vultures." 

Two vultures, with naked pink heads and cruel curving beaks. Cass could imagine their brown plumage fluffing on the chimney. She knew they were vultures, and she knew who the tall man in front of her was. All these eons and he hadn't changed his name. 

"Why here?” she said. 

Prometheus leant against the wall. In the light from the dusty window, his scars gleamed. He was taller than her, she realised, and broader, and his shadow spread wide behind him. She had the sensation of looking up at him, further than should have been necessary. 

“Why not here?” he said, and his voice was soft and rumbling as thunder. “Why not a stranger in a small town? I’ve been a stranger in many a place and many a time. I was a stranger when I brought the light down from the mountainside and a stranger when I was chained to the rock.”

His face almost shone. Cass blinked hard to rid herself of the dancing spots in her peripherals. From above, the vultures scratched. From below, the ground steadied. Across from her, Prometheus smiled. 

“Go home, Cass,” he said. “You’ve got enough divinity in you. Your maker put stardust in your veins.”

She could have gone to her knees right then and there for the power in his voice, but she’d seen through plenty a hurricane. She was a daughter of the desert and he saw it. His stare softened. “You’ll be all right.”

“Will you?” she asked. “When it comes?”

Prometheus smiled again. An ancient flame lit his eyes. "Yes," he said. "I think I will, Cassandra. Take care of yourself, now.”

Cass walked away from the house, head down, hands in her pockets. When she got halfway down the street she turned and looked back. Blood was dribbling towards the closest drain, stirring up the dust in the roads. The air was heavy with heat-haze.

From inside the house, she heard the harsh shriek of a vulture. 



Once upon a time, there was a little girl. Her name was Rana, and she lived on a farm. Her family was made of a dad, a mom, six brothers, eleven cows (Bessie died last fall), two dogs, and three cats. 

This day started off quite ordinary. Her brothers were milking the cows.

Rana took her little bucket and walked carefully to the first milking stall. Annabelle, the biggest cow, looked at her with big, solemn eyes. Randy, her brother who was leaning against the cow’s side with his hands working the teats, looked at her with sleepy eyes. “Go ask one of the other boys today.”

“But they don’t give me enough. My kitties are thirsty all day then.”

Randy sighed. “Hold your bucket closer.”

She obeyed, and he filled it almost to the top. “My kitties will say thank you, Randy.” He mumbled something. She held the bucket with both hands and walked to the corner of the barn. Taffy, Shaggy, and Ruffles came to her right away, and she petted them while they drank their milk. When they were done, the boys were done milking, and everyone went inside for breakfast. 

Mama asked the same question every morning. “What are you guys doing today?”

Randy said he and Rey were going to work on the treehouse. Ricardo was going to draw pictures of all the birds he could find. Rowan, Rudy, and Ryan were going to go fishing. Rana wasn’t sure. 

“Do you want to come grocery shopping with me?”

Rana shook her head. “Maybe I’ll go fishing too.”

Rudy protested. “You always splash around and scare the fish away.”

“No need for loud voices at the breakfast table.” Daddy didn’t like arguments. “I noticed a weak spot in the fence this morning, so the cows have to stay inside today. I’m going to walk the fence and see how much lumber I need to get. We’ll need all hands on deck tomorrow for repairs.”

Later that morning, Rana found herself walking down a deer path through the woods. She could hear the creek to her left. She followed the path until the trees opened up to a meadow. She could see the creek now, bubbling happily into the pond. Ripples made the reflected sky look magical, and she smiled. 

There were a lot of sweet williams blooming at the tree line. She picked a handful and brought them to the pond’s edge. She picked off the individual flowers, put them gently into the water, and watched them dance on the ripples. 

Farther away, the pond was as smooth as glass. She could see the boys across there, sitting on the bank with their lines in the water. She watched Rowan get up and hand his pole to Ryan. 

Rowan made his way to a big maple tree that grew close to the pond. He jumped for the lowest branch and caught it on his first try. Rana watched as he pulled himself up and wiggled along a big branch that hung over the water. He motioned for Ryan to hand him back his pole. 

Ryan held on to the tree trunk and leaned out with the pole. Rowan bent from his branch and reached. He grabbed the pole, lost his balance, and pulled Ryan into the pond with him. 

They made a wonderful splash. Their big ripples came all the way across the pond and fought with the little creek ripples. Rana giggled as they climbed out, dripping wet and shivering, and Rudy groaned about “for sure not catching any fish now”. 

All four made their way back to the house. Rudy cleaned up the poles while Rana ran inside for dry clothes. She came back and threw them into the barn, where Rowan and Ryan were changing. 

“What do we do with our wet stuff?” Rowan wrung out his tshirt. “Mama wouldn’t want it in the house.”

Ryan shook out his hair like a dog. “We can hang them up in Bessie's stall.”

“But it’s so humid.”

“What if we turned on that little heater? Just until our clothes are dry.” 

This course of action was adopted, and the extension cord was run to Bessie’s stall for the little heater. The boys left to see how the tree house was coming along, and Rana climbed up to the loft to find her cats. 

She dug a little nest in the hay and waited. Soon Taffy and Shaggy were purring happily as she scratched around their ears. Ruffles curled up beside her and fell asleep.

A weird sound came from down below; like popcorn, almost. Rana frowned and stood up, sending the two cats away. She walked to the ladder. “Boys? Are you down there?” She caught a whiff of air that smelled like winter: woodsmoke. 

The cats followed Rana as she clambered down the ladder into a haze of smoke. Annabelle and Clara were shifting nervously on either side of the empty stall. Rana could see tongues of fire licking up the straw around the heater. She unplugged the extension cord, then ran for her little bucket and filled it up at the water trough. She sloshed it over the heater, but the fire was spreading fast through the hay. She dropped the bucket.

Rana ran for the big door and threw her weight against it. She pushed it all the way open, then grabbed the morning bell and rang it twice, the same way Randy always did when they were finished milking. The cows stirred and started backing from their stalls, but the fire had reached the wall and was racing up it. 

Barking caught her attention as Guardian and Lassie dashed past her into the barn. They pushed the cows, nipping at their legs. Rana watched in relief as the cows exited the barn one by one until Lizbeth was out and the barn was empty. The whole ceiling was on fire now.

Rana sent the dogs, and thereby the cows, to the other end of the pasture. Then Mama got home from grocery shopping, and she got scolded for standing so close to the barn. It was all burning now.

The boys came running, and Daddy came up from the field. Everyone wanted to know what happened, but Rana was busy coughing. The barn turned into a pile of ashes. 

 

Evening came. Daddy and the boys set up a makeshift fence to keep the cows from getting too close to the scene of the fire. They did the milking into extra pails from the garage. Rana got a container from Mama to give milk to her cats, but only Taffy and Shaggy came running. 

Rana suddenly remembered Ruffles, curled up in the hayloft. She burst into tears and ran into the kitchen. Mama let her cry until the boys were washed up, then dried her tears and led her to the table. They prayed.

“I don’t want to eat.” 

“I want you to eat a little bit, at least. Do you want to tell us what happened first?”

She told the whole story, but broke down when she got to the end with poor Ruffles. Daddy looked at her very seriously before getting up out of his chair. 

“Rana, I want you to switch spots with me.”

She halted mid-sniff. “What?”

“This spot is for the protector of the family. You did a lot of protecting today. Your quick thinking saved all the cows, and two of the cats.”

“But Ruffles—”

“Rana,” he pulled back her chair and gave her a hug. “You did everything you could. I’m proud of you. Go sit in my chair.”

She felt very small in Daddy’s chair. The boys all looked like they wished they had been at the fire. Rana wished they would have been there, too. Maybe they could’ve saved Ruffles. 

But Daddy was proud of her. She wiped her nose and sat a little straighter. Maybe she could eat some supper after all. 


Did you ever wish you could go back in time to when you were five years old? That’s a reasonable age – old enough to grasp the difference between right and wrong yet young enough to be just a kid having lots of fun.

You have many years to go before you’re even on the cusp of adulthood and there will be an infinite number of opportunities for you to fuck things up. And you will. Being a kid is all about having fun so knock yourself out! It’ll all get real soon enough

If I, a mature and seemingly rational woman of the world, could write a letter to my five-year-old self, I might say something like this:

“Hey, you!

There’s a ginormous amount of ‘stuff’ that you’re going to have to deal with in life so listen up:

• Somebody once said “All I really need to know I learned in kindergarten” so pay attention in class. It’s true; Grammy’s going to have a wall-hanging with that entire essay embroidered on it.

• Obey the Ten Commandments, Follow the Golden Rule and listen to the Beatles because life really is about peace, love and understanding.

• Mom and Dad aren’t the enemy; they’re doing the best they can so cut them some slack.

Right now you’re having the time of your young life. Your days are pretty much planned out for you. Mom does all the work and there aren’t a lot of demands on you. It’s mostly playing, eating, napping and doing a chore or two. Lather, rinse, repeat tomorrow. Life is good and you’re a happy kid.

Sometimes, though, you’re going to be so sad all you want to do is cry and that’s okay; even big people cry. You won’t be sad forever.

Other times you’re going to get so mad you just want to scream at the top of your lungs and hit somebody, but that isn’t a good reaction – except if it’s Susie Carter; she’s the spoiled brat who lives three houses down. So when she rips your Chatty Cathy doll apart, you’re going to hit her over the head with her Mickey and Minnie Mouse lunch box. Learn to choose your battles wisely, kid, and you know what? People will think twice before being mean to you again – especially Susie.

Something we really need to talk about is noses. Yours is okay right now but in a few years it’s going to turn into a real honker and you’re not going to like it. You’ll get teased a lot and it’ll hurt but hang in there because the most important guy in your life won’t care about any of that at all. He thinks you look like Sophia Loren and that’s a very good thing.

Mom isn’t comfortable talking about a lot of personal stuff and you’re going wake up one morning to discover your body’s changing. It happens to all girls and while some of it is pretty yucky and you think you’re going to die because there’s something wrong with you, most of it is really amazing. Let’s just say God knows what he’s doing and you’re going to turn out okay.

When you’re about 14 somebody super cool is going to enter your life, coming and going for a couple of years. He’s a 16-year-old beanpole name Steven Tallarico – Google him. Seriously. You might feel like kicking yourself because you didn’t run off with him when you had the chance but your whole life would have turned out differently and probably not for the best. Don’t worry. In 1968 you’re going to go on a blind date and that guy will change your life forever and in the best ways imaginable.

You’re going to make a lot of mistakes; everybody does. It doesn’t matter who you are in this giant world – you’re going to screw up and believe me some of your booboos are doozies. You’re going to hurt people and when the dust settles all you can do is apologize and try to make things right. The important thing is to own your mistakes and take responsibility.

Responsibility. Accountability. Big words with important meanings and so easy to overlook. They’re going to be important to you and believe me, kid, there’s nothing wrong with that. People won’t always act the way you want them to; try to remember just because YOU think someone should act a certain way doesn’t mean it’s the right way for them. Let it go because it’s wrong to force people to do anything. And don’t let others force you.

Don’t be afraid to smile and make friends but don’t blindly trust people you don’t know. And if something doesn’t feel right, don’t do it. If somebody scares you, scream your head off and run like hell because there are some bad people out there. But there are also a lot of wonderful people and most of the time you’ll be able to tell the difference. Sometimes you won’t and people will hurt you. Shame on them! Cut your losses and move on; it’s their problem, not yours.

Nobody’s life is perfect, not even yours. You can own a lot of great stuff but if you don’t have a loving family and friends then you don’t have anything. You will be greatly blessed in more ways than you can count – not by the wonderful things YOU do but by the wonderful people in your life.

Some things I’ve learned along the way:

• Listen to Mom and Dad; they really do know more than you (especially about Woodstock!).

• Go easy with the blue eye shadow; it’s not a great look. And watch out for sloe gin fizzes; they have a way of sneaking up on you and knocking you on your ass.

• Be a friend, lend a hand and don’t judge; you never know what someone may be going through.

• Be respectful – not only of others but of yourself.

• The popular thing isn’t always the right thing and the right thing isn’t always the popular thing. That’s a tough one.

• If you say you’re going to do something, do it. Be responsible (see above).

• Don’t be afraid to show your emotions and let people know how much you care; it’s how you know you’re alive.

• Be flexible. Things don’t always go as planned.

• You’re going to have your heart broken more than a few times and you’re going to break some hearts, too. It sucks but that’s just the way life is.

• Don’t be late. Period. You can’t control the weather or traffic but you can anticipate it.

• Don’t lie or make excuses. Not only does it show poor character – it’s too hard to remember all your tall tales. The truth always comes out.

• Smoking is not cool so cut it out. It’s a disgusting and expensive habit.

• Listen to the Beatles as much as you can; not only is their music just about the best you’ll ever hear, you’ll learn a lot from what they have to say.

• Just be a decent person; it’s really not that difficult.

Look to the stars, dream big and follow your heart. And in the end the love you take is equal to the love you make.

Love, You!”


“A spider plant,” Ma said when she picked me up from school.

I was disappointed. Kyra and I had been neighbours since kindergarten. And she had left me a plant! Not a pirate headband or a video game or at least one of the many treasures we had dug out together. That too some…

“What plant ma?”

“Spy…der plant.” She drawled as she helped me balance myself on the deck of her scooter.

“Spy…der plant! Spaay…der plant! SPUDRR plant!!” I rolled the sound of it in my mouth as Ma cruised along the curvy road.

“Will you please be quiet and let me ride peacefully…” Ma chided through her helmet.

I held the handlebar with my thumbs and winged out other fingers to the tune that was stuck in my mind- spider plant! spider plant! Friendly neighbourhood spider plant! I did not count the number of red cars that zoomed past us.

Our home was a five minutes ride from school; on arrival, I jumped from the deck. Ma parked the scooter in the garage and opened the door.

I dumped my bag on the console table. Removed my shoes in a hurry and went looking for the plant.

It sat among the giants Ma had placed on the porch overlooking the backyard. A small, pale green plant with cheese-colored streaks. It looked nothing like a spider. It was rooted in a 7-up bottle that had a rectangular strip cut out from its belly. I stared at the unremarkable blades of the plant for some time and decided I was going to give it a glorious future.

***

Saturday morning, after breakfast, was when I missed Kyra the most. Other kids were still around. But they were not Kyra. I stopped playing after a while and returned home early. Ma was curled up on the sofa with a coffee mug and newspaper.

“Ma, can I get a big pot?”

“What?” a few drops of coffee spilled on her pajamas. Her brows were drawn together. I had got her complete, glaring attention.

“A pot, to put the spider plant in.”

A few more drops of coffee were spilled and I got her wide-eyed scrutiny.

“Ma, I want the spider plant to grow big!” I spread my arms wide to be clear.

Ma studied my face between my strong arms and said,

“Okay, tomorrow I am going to re-pot a few plants. We can do it then.” And went back to her newspaper.

I went to the porch. I had kept my plant on a little stand, away from the giants. My little spider had a spot in the sun. I held the sunlight on its blades between my thumb and index finger and felt its warmth. I watered it and whispered,

“Guess what? Tomorrow you are going to get a big, new room!”

***

Building a new room for my plant was not just easy. It was so much fun!

First, I put a LOT of water into the 7-up bottle.

Then I checked the terracotta pot Ma had given me. I was a little annoyed with her as she had already drilled a hole at its bottom, without my help.

I placed the little chips of brick and pebbles at the bottom of the pot. Then, I scooped a panful of sand from the sack Ma had kept open. And sprinkled it all over the hills of brick pieces and pebbles. It formed a desert with small dunes in the pot. How was a desert going to feed my spider? I didn’t know, I had to trust Ma on that. I ran to the mound next to the sack that looked like grated chocolate, gathered a handful of it, squished it, and raised it to my nose. It smelt like…ugh... cow dung. Something wiggled in its dampness and tried to come out through my fist. Aaargh! a live slinky spring, an earthworm! I rushed to the pot that was going to house my spider and pushed the moist pink wiggler into it along with the black soil. Ma scooped out the spider plant from the bottle and gave me. I lowered it into the pit I had made and pressed down the dirt on its pouchy, white roots with a trowel. Then I watered it.

Ma said I did a good job.

I knew I had done a splendid job.

I sneaked out to the porch before bedtime to check on my plant. I parted the blades just to see if I could catch a glimpse of the earthworm. But something with bulging eyes and a lot of dots jumped out of it, instead! I ran back to the door and peeped from inside. If Ma or Pa were to catch me, I would be in trouble. But I could not go to sleep till I knew who had come to my spider’s new room. I tiptoed back on the porch again. Someone on the floor was blowing a straw into a glass of water, ribbit, ribbit…It was a plump frog! Ma always said, where there is a frog, a snake can’t be far behind. I tiptoed back into the house and hit the sack.

Kyra and I were sitting on the branch of a guava tree, plucking the tiny, unripe guavas, chipping away at its parrot green skin, and chewing on the white kernel that had a hundred soft seeds in it. We saw a red mushroom with white dots sprouting from the ground beneath us. It ballooned to the size of a hut within seconds. A brown frog jumped out of its open door with a green spider close at its heels followed by a black snake.

Ma found me sleeping under my cot in the morning.

***

A week later, my plant turned the shade of the frog.

I showed it to Ma. She sighed and patted my head.

After one more week, it turned the shade of the frog with dots. Ma shook her head and said, “I’m sorry Kanna. I think the plant is dead.”

I could not understand. How could it die? I had placed it in a nice, sunny spot. I watered it every day. I had put a small fence around it so that no frogs disturbed it.

Was it because Kyra had not called me? She had promised, she would. But it was already more than two weeks.

I did not want to root out the brown beard-like structure my plant had become. I thought it would become green once again if I waited for some more time.

It didn’t.

I stood looking at the brown-black remains of the plant. Ma asked in a cheerful voice she used whenever I was down.

“Kanna, I’m going to the nursery to buy some compost and seeds. Would you like to come?”

I shook my head vigorously in a negative, with tears springing from my eyes. It was dead now. Just like my friendship with Kyra.

“You can pick a new plant to replace it,” Ma said in an encouraging voice.

“But it won’t be the same.”

Ma paused, took my hands in hers, and looked me in the eyes.

“No, it won’t be the same. But it will be a new beginning.”

Today afternoon, I went to the nursery for the first time with Ma. I had never found such a treasure since Kyra had left. After listening to many plants, I brought home a Peace Lily for my pot.

It will have a glorious future!

Your cursor blinks. 

Your cursor blinks ceaselessly. 

You delete ceaselessly. Adverbs are not your friend. Adverbs are indicative of weak diction, but you cannot think of a better verb to express the action just the way you want. 

Certainly you can use an adverb occasionally. 

You delete occasionally.  

You delete certainly.

You can use an adverb on occasion. 

You close your laptop. Your writing session is not going well. None of the five prompts are particularly inspiring.

You decide to take a break. Make a sandwich. Text a friend, who asks [wat r u doin] and you reply [writing]. 

You watch an episode of a new Netflix series. It’s a pile of meh, but you sit on your couch, slack jawed and mouth breathing. You start a second episode. It’s worse than the first! The characters are one-dimensional. The plot is implausible. The dialogue is clichéd. 

You could write something better. You watch six more episodes to prove your point. 

You could definitely write something better. 

You delete definitely. 

It’s the middle of the night now, and you’ve finished your pint of Ben & Jerry's Peanut Butter Cup ice cream. Having ingested 200% of your daily sugar allowance, your inner muses wake up, inspiring you to sit back down at your desk, to open up your laptop, and to create worlds of wonder.

In the blue-black hours of the night, you plan to conjure up the ghosts of authors from days of yore, bringing to bear (to bare?) their eternal insights about the human condition. You think of channeling Homer and Sophocles from Ancient Greece. Confucius, Lao Tzu from the Far East. And from the contemporary canon of literature? The esteemed E. L. James and Stephenie Meyer.

I write therefore I am. 

You tappity tap on your keyboard, smacking the keys with your potato chip greasy fingers. 

You manage to type in your password correctly on the first try (!) even though it contains characters like ~ and \ and /. No Eastern Bloc teenager from the dark web will hack into your bank account, which currently has a negative balance due to overdraft penalties. 

Irregardless. 

You delete Ir. 

Regardless. 

You open up your word processing program. A blissfully blank page appears, framed by helpful toolbars. Lots of toolbars. You wonder if anyone actually uses all that firepower when writing the great American novel, or, in your case, a 1000-word short story. Maybe you should incorporate subscripts or superscripts into your edgy prose? Maybe then some jaded judge would put you on the shortlist, since you’ve long given up on winning anything. 

You stare at the toolbars. You stare at the screen. 

Your cursor blinks.

Your cursor blinks and blinks and blinks, patiently waiting for your first word, phrase, or clause. 

Type something, dammit. Just type characters on the page.

fjklsdjfalksjfklasjfklajsklajfljaslkdsjfalk

The cursor still blinks, mesmerizing you on some level. 

Your heartbeat syncs to it.

Diastole. Systole. Diastole. Systole. 

As blood pushes from the right ventricle into your lungs to be oxygenated, oxygen-rich blood pours from the left ventricle into the heart, then out to all parts of your body. 

Of course you don’t remember any of this from your high school biology class. You just googled “heartbeat” like everyone else, since why remember anything? 

However, now that you are a writer, it may have been useful to learn grammar and composition in college. But the TA’s graded most of the work, and as long as you got it in on time, you usually got an A.

“Got” is one of those verbs that says nothing. You need to work on your verb choice. 

Procured an A.

Earned an A. 

Acquired an A. 

English 101 wasn’t really a class; it was more of an exercise on how to submit lightly plagiarized work into turnitin.com without being caught. 

Your cursor blinks. 

You blink back. 

The snowy white page makes you feel lonely. What if you have nothing relevant to say about the human condition? 

You remember back, thinking how much you’ve suffered throughout your suburban life. How you suffered in silence, stifled from the singularity of soul. How no one really understood your wit and wisdom, all wasted on a weary world. 

You remember how much alliteration matters in making magnificent manifestos. 

Like your adult education writing teacher told you in his “Creative Writing Begins with U!” class: “You don’t write good. You write well.”

You warm up your fingers.

fjklsdjfalksjfklasjfklajsklajfljaslkdsjfalk

You pick up your cell phone. 

What would happen if you “hey u up” your ex-girlfriend at 3:00 a.m.? 

Perhaps she still is your girlfriend. You haven’t texted her in a few days weeks, but you have been working on your novel short story.  

[hey u up]

[go to hell]

Your cursor blinks, now cruel in its own accusing way. 

I dare you, it blinks. Try to formulate a plot that hasn’t been plotted before. Even William Jefferson Shakespeare stole all of the plots to his plays from previous works. What makes you think you can fill the shoes of F. Scott Fitzgerald? Ernest Hemingway? Bill O’Reilly’s ghostwriter?

Who are you kidding? 

You are a hack. Your writing is flat and uninspired. Your themes are treacly, plots predictable. 

It’s time to quit pretending you have anything to say that’s worth writing down. 

But yet. 

You have an idea. 

You can spin one of these prompts on its head. You can figuratively, nay, tangentially bend the prompt to your flash of inspiration.  

You scribble down your idea before it disappears. 

Yes. YES. It will all work! 

Your fingers take on a life of their own. 

You are in THE FLOW. 

The setting appears in a technicolor epiphany. Vivid characters spring to life, arriving wholly intact with backstories—they are well rounded, fully developed, and universally relatable. Your readers will laugh with their joys and weep with their sorrows. And the plot? The plot unfolds like a spring flower. 

The cursor skips along with you, struggling to keep pace until you finally reach 1000 words. 

Chicken Scratch

Squinting in the bright sunlight, a small boy scanned the yard. He watched the chickens doing their left/right kick-kick, kick-kick dance, sending up little puffs of fine dust as they scratched for edibles. 

He liked watching them, and he also knew that their antics occasionally turned up interesting swag. Once, a long time ago - when he was four - he’d picked up a tiny soldier. Grandma took it away because she was afraid it could poison him, which he didn’t understand. Later, she gave it back to him all shiny and told him it was safe now, but never to put it in his mouth.

Another time, not too long ago, the busy birds had uncovered a set of keys. Auntie Lou had almost cried when she saw them, and said they were Henry’s keys that he’d dropped and never could find. Henry had been her husband. She took the keys and put them in her pocket. Later, the boy saw them hanging on the rack by the back door, on the peg marked “Henry”, as if the owner might come in the door and want to use them. Grandma remarked that it was just sentimentality, not senility - and of course he asked her what those words meant. He added them to his ever growing arsenal of words, and fired them at unsuspecting adults.

Right now, Grandma was in the house with Auntie Lou - who was about a hundred and fifty years old and was  Grandma’s sister. She was mostly deaf, entirely stubborn, and didn’t understand why Grandma insisted on stopping by twice a week to check on her. Grandma often brought the boys along; there were plenty of things to amuse them for an hour or so. This time Stuart was not with them. He was a third grader and had a longer school day than his kindergartner brother. They would pick him up later.

The chickens vigorously scratched the earth, a few of them peering one-eyed at something they’d discovered. They took turns pecking at it to test its edibility, murmuring softly, “Hrrr-hrrr-hrrr-hrrrr…”

Apparently disappointed, they moved along to another promising spot, allowing the small treasure hunter to move in and inspect the find.

It was rounded, very hard, kind of grayish silver, and quite stuck in the ground. He ran back to the porch, where the yard tools were kept, and picked out a rusty trowel with tape wrapped around its wooden handle. Trotting back to the buried treasure, he squatted and carefully scraped around the object. It appeared to be made of some sort of metal. Poking the tip of the trowel down as deep as he could, just like Grandma did when she was gardening, he pushed down on the handle and lifted a clod of dirt encasing the object.

After thumping the clod against the ground to release some of the dirt, he stood up and picked away most of the remaining clumps until the round thing was just thinly coated with earth. He rubbed it against his pant leg, gently at first, then briskly to get the surface clean. Grandma always made him wear an old pair of overalls when they went to Aunt Lou’s, because “You’re bound to get dirty!” Afterward, she would take the overalls from him and give him a clean pair of jeans to put on before they went anywhere else. That’s just the way Grandma was. So it didn’t matter if he had dirt streaked on the pant leg; she expected it.

The boy inspected the object to see if it was worth cleaning some more. Its diameter was roughly the size of his palm, and it was just about as thick through as his hand. Maybe it was a pocket watch. He knew about those; Grandpa had one that he kept in his dresser drawer. It had belonged to Grandpa’s father, and it still ran just fine, but Grandpa didn’t use it.

There was a fine line that looked like it could be a place to open the maybe-pocket-watch. He slid his dirt-crusted little fingernail in and rotated the piece, loosening particles of ingrained soil until he could see the point of separation. Prizing the cover open slowly, he stared at the exposed face in puzzlement. It wasn’t a watch, after all. It had letters instead of numbers, and only one hand - which quivered when he moved. He was a beginning reader who could sight read quite a few words, but he didn’t think these letters could make words. 

“Sound it out,” Mrs. Finch always suggested.

“Nneeses swwnw -” he tried, but the letters seemed unpronounceable. Maybe there were some tricks he hadn’t yet learned, or… maybe it was a different language. Then more letters caught his eye, and he sucked his breath in sharply. They made a word he could read. Stamped into the inside of the cover, near the hinges, was his own name!

“STERLING”, he read. 

“Sterling!” Grandma’s voice echoed the name. “Time to go, boyo!” He dropped the trophy into the slightly baggy side pocket of the overalls - which had once been Stuart’s, and were still somewhat big for Sterling - and scampered across the yard. 

“What did you find today?” Grandma inquired, from the top step. Sterling was always picking something up and adding it to his collection of oddities. Things dug up by the chickens were particularly enchanting to her youngest grandchild.

“I”, he answered, jumping onto the bottom step with both feet.

“Don’t”, he continued, as he reached the next one.”

“Know!” he finished, triumphantly landing on the porch. “Whew!” 

“You did find something, but don’t know what it is?”

“Yep! I’ll show you it.”

They went inside, momentarily blinded by the comparative dimness of the room after being in the bright sunlight. 

“Let’s go and say goodbye to Lou before she falls asleep,” Grandma told Sterling with a wink. “You can show both of us what you found. LOO-uuu-UUU!” she called, raising her voice several decibels as she realized that her sister was not in the room.

“I’m back here, Nancy - quit warbling! You don’t have to yell. I’m not deaf,” Auntie Lou grumbled, thumping her cane a bit harder than necessary on the wood floor of the hallway as she advanced.

Rounding the corner into the kitchen, she announced, “I have something for you, young man.” She always called both Sterling and Stuart “young man”, and she never failed to have something to give the brothers when they came to visit. Sometimes the gift was just some candy, or what she called a “gewgaw”. Grandma said that was just an old-fashioned word for a knickknack or a doodad.

“Come here,” Auntie Lou instructed, leaning on her cane with one hand and fishing around in her smock pocket with the other. She invariably wore the same style of snap-front smock with big pockets. This one was a paisley print, so faded that the colors were indeterminate. 

“Hold out your hand.” She placed a small, tissue-wrapped packet in Sterling’s hand. 

“That’s for your brother. Put it in your pocket.” Sterling complied, placing the bundle in the pocket not occupied by the mysterious device.

“Now, this is for you.” 

The gruff old lady squinted at him, commanding, “Close your eyes.” 

She placed her closed fist over her great-nephew’s hand, then opened it to let something small and hard land on his palm. Taking her hand away, she allowed him to look.

“Do you know what it is?”

Sterling pulled at his upper lip in thought, gazing at Auntie Lou’s gift. It looked like the same type of metal as the round thing the chickens had uncovered, but this was long and narrow, with rounded ends, and had a delicate, swirly design on it. He rolled it with his thumb, and took a guess. 

“A knife?”

Auntie Lou chuckled and patted his shoulder with a gnarled, age-spotted hand.

“You’re a smart boy! Yes, it’s a knife. It’s very old - belonged to your great grandfather. Our father,” she added, nodding toward Grandma.

“Lou, I don’t know if you should be giving him that!” Grandma exclaimed. “It’s got to be valuable!”

“He’ll take good care of it.” Auntie Lou spoke firmly, while kind of glaring at Sterling as if to dare him to prove her wrong. “Besides, it’s meant for him. Look.” She picked it up from his still outspread palm and showed them the round emblem on one side. Letters curving around the inside of the circle spelled out “STERLING”.

“Wow!” The little boy’s eyes were round in astonishment. Twice in one day!

“I gotta show you this.” He dug the chickens’ curio out of his pocket and held it out to Auntie Lou.

“The chickens uncovered it.”

Grandma moved next to Auntie Lou, where she could see the object.

“Do you recognize it? Do you know what it is?”

“No,” Auntie Lou declared, “It wasn’t Henry’s, and Johnny never had anything like that.” She held it closer to her face, her untidy gray eyebrows drawing down as she studied the round thing.

“It opens,” Sterling informed them, pointing to the crevice. Auntie Lou tried to pry at it and tottered dangerously.

“Lou!” exclaimed Grandma. “Give me that. Sit down before you fall and break a hip!”

“Bossy!” retorted Auntie Lou, pushing her lips out in a pout and scowling at her younger sister - but she sat. As she lowered herself onto the worn velveteen couch, a cloud of dust rose up. Sterling watched the dust motes floating through a sunbeam. 

“Now, let me see -” Grandma grasped the silvery case and stuck her fingernail in the slot. The lid came up a little more easily this time.

“Oh!” Grandma gasped. “It’s a compass!”

Grandma didn’t think Sterling should take the compass. It appeared to be an antique, and could be worth quite a bit. Besides, Lou had already given him that pocket knife. 

“Oh, don’t be such an old woman about it!” Lou scolded. “The boy found it. Let him have it.”

“No, I didn’t!” Sterling protested. “The chickens did. But it does have my name on it.”

“That’s right. Your parents can keep both of those safe until you’re older. Now, go on, you two. I’m tired, and I need a nap!”

“Grandma?”

“Yes?” She turned slightly to glance at him in his car seat, behind her on the right. 

“Auntie Lou is a curmudgeon, isn’t she?”

Grandma burst out laughing.

“She is, indeed. She’s cranky and grumpy, but she has a soft heart underneath all that.”

“Well, Grandma, old people can be that way sometimes. You know what?”

“What, boyo?”

“I’m gonna have some adventures with that compass, and that knife - and maybe someday I’ll have a pocket watch like Grandpa’s, and when I’m an old man, I’m gonna be a curmudgeon and find a little boy to give ’em to.”

“Let him through!” Zac’s new friend bellowed, standing up and bumping his head on the baggage locker above him. They’d just touched down and the passengers were desperate to get off the plane.

“Come ON,” hissed Luke, shoving Zac into the aisle. “Move!” he added to the man who’d snored through the whole flight from Istanbul.

Passengers in the front seats were stretching, glancing Zac’s way in annoyance. He looked away, embarrassed. He’d only started talking to Luke later in the flight when violent air turbulence over the Alps sent him sprawling into Luke’s lap.

“EVERYONE!” Luke’s voice cut through the pungent cabin air, “You HAVE to move - this man’s having a BABY!”

Zac dropped his laptop as the passengers turned around in surprise. A flirtatious octogenarian in seat B24 clapped her hands and nudged her neighbour, “How lovely,” she cooed loudly, “but he shouldn’t have been flying in his condition.” People shuffled back to their seats, clearing the aisle, and congratulating him.

“New Dad coming through!” someone called from behind.

Zac bent down for his laptop, shame surging to his face. The truth was, he’d only known about the baby since Tuesday, and he certainly wasn’t ready to be a new dad. Reluctance dragged at him, willing him not to get off the plane. He wished he hadn’t told Luke, but he’d had to say something after being in his lap.

Finally, he was out of the plane, into the tunnel where the fresh air caught in his lungs. He didn’t know where to go from here, but he was striding on all the same. Through doorways and checkpoints, corridors and moving stairs, bright boutiques selling sunglasses and perfume. Should he buy a present? What do you buy for a baby you’ve never met and an ex-girlfriend you hardly know?

He was lost. Zac stood still. Was he rushing to the hospital or running away? Each way he turned; the maze of the airport confused him. Looking up at the signs, he saw that he was in a departure lounge and the flight was boarding in twelve minutes. To Istanbul. He sat on a vinyl seat and scrubbed both hands over his face, stubble scratching his palms. What was he doing here? Why hadn’t he ignored the text from Rachelle? Thousands of men did that, why couldn’t he? It would’ve been easy; he could pretend the baby wasn’t his. He could board this flight and be gone.

But he couldn’t. Wouldn’t. Every kid needed a dad.

Zac rose shakily to his feet. He saw a shop selling nappies and things that only mums know about. The shop assistant was smiling, Zac wasn’t sure why. He bought a cuddly dinosaur and a teddy in a tutu. He didn’t know if the baby was a boy or a girl after all.

“Would you like them wrapped?” the assistant asked, still smiling. How do you talk and smile at the same time?

Zac stared at her. “Will it be able to unwrap it?” he asked, unsure.

“How old is Baby?”

“I don’t know yet,” Zac said stupidly.

“Let’s wrap the cuddlies anyway, Mum can help unwrap if Baby’s too young.”

Zac needed to go, he was in an altered reality where he didn’t belong, and it was frightening him. He snatched up the presents, now with enormous bows on them, one pink, one blue, and tucked them under each arm. He read the overhead signs to the baggage carousel and this time, his route unfolded clearly, each corridor leading on to the next until he entered the revolving doors and broke free into the outside world.

The hire car was parked at the top of East Street Multistorey Carpark. Zac had forgotten the odour of the urine-soaked stairs of these places - maybe it was unique to the UK? - like the green sludge on the outside walls. The sun never reached here, not that there was much sun to reach anywhere. He’d stopped at Level One to put the toys in his hold all; he didn’t want his kid playing with toys that smelt.

The traffic was slow. Brake lights and number plates filled Zac’s vision. A few years ago, he’d have known the back streets well enough to navigate out of here, but the area around the airport had been rejuvenated with smoky glass office blocks and exclusive wine bars. His sat nav kept telling him to make a U turn and it rudely ignored him when he shouted that he couldn’t. There was a new ring road to ease the traffic flow, but once on it, Zac found no way to get off. His car reached a top speed of thirty-nine miles an hour at one point, only to reach a slip lane that took him to Ikea. A dead end.

Zac considered shopping. The baby might need a changing mat or one of those mobiles that played a tune or maybe a PlayStation? That would be fun, they could play together.

But he didn’t stop. He wanted to get there, to prove to Rachelle that he wanted to be part of his baby’s life.

The sat nav gave him an alternative route out. The traffic wasn’t as dense here and after a left turn in two hundred yards and a right turn at the T junction, Zac joined the main route out of the city, turning off the sat nav with satisfaction.

With only twenty miles to go, Zac needed fuel. He pulled into Langham Services (Northbound), his knuckles tight from gripping the steering wheel. He went to the Gents, then hovered outside a florist. Should he buy Rachelle some flowers? Is that what you were supposed to do? As far as he remembered, she’d rather have vodka and coke. Turning away from the flowers, he almost walked on a child who was lying on the floor. Zac stared. Where was its’ mother? What was it doing anyway? Zac tilted his head to see that the boy was licking the floor, happily murmuring to himself.

“Hey,” said Zac gently. He didn’t want to frighten the kid, he was a New Dad now. The boy ignored him and moved towards Zac’s highly polished shoes. “Hey!” repeated Zac, more sharply. The kid wasn’t going to lick his shoes, that was disgusting. He’d polished them before the flight.

“Liam! There you are!” Zac looked up with relief as the mother came running towards him. She glared at him. “Liam, did this man hurt you?” Liam was giggling as his mum picked him up and Zac saw that his face was smeared with ice-cream and dirt.

“No, that’s not what happened,” started Zac, but the two of them had already gone. He stared after them. Were all kids like that? All dribbly and revolting? He hoped his baby was a girl. She’d play with dolls and stay clean.

Parking at the hospital was a nightmare. Each time he drove round the car park and Zac saw a space, someone else shot into it first. Who designed these things anyway? The spaces were too small for any car with more than three wheels, and he kept driving up the kerb. He’d found himself in the staff carpark at one point, and, just as he was about to park, he’d come dramatically close to running over a doctor.

“Sorry!” he’d mouthed through the windscreen, trying to look apologetic.

A woman was foraging in her handbag over in the top corner, so Zac took the quickest route to reach her, driving over the grass. He loitered next to her until she had her keys, but instead, she took a tissue from her bag and wiped her eyes. Her shoulders were shaking, and her face was grey. Zac buzzed his window down.

“Are you leaving?” he asked in his most charming voice.

The woman stared at him without understanding. He threw the car into reverse. Someone had died and he’d blundered in, thinking only of himself. And his baby girl. He had to find her.

Zac parked in front of the ticket machine. This would have to do. He wrote a note on the back of the fuel receipt and left it on the dashboard. He wasn’t going to pay when there weren’t any spaces. “HAVING A BABY” should give him a free pass.

The hospital loomed in front of him. The severe architecture and tiny windows didn’t appeal to Zac. His tastes were more modern - sleek lines and floor to ceiling windows. As he climbed the entrance steps, he saw a map on the wall. It was hard to know which ward he needed, why couldn’t one be called ‘Baby Ward’?

“Excuse me -” Zac caught the attention of a patient having a cigarette. “Where do they have babies?”

The patient, a middle-aged man with pinched-in eyes, drew on his cigarette until the end turned red and his face turned redder.

“Well,” the man chuckled, “my wife had our second in the corner shop. Came out that fast, he did. She only went for crisps.” He laughed and smoke seeped out from between his teeth.

“No, I didn’t mean…” started Zac.

The man smiled patronisingly. “Is it your first?” he asked. Zac nodded as if he’d done something wrong.

“You’ll be fine,” he said, his tone soothing. He flapped his cigarette in the direction of a separate building at right angles to the main hospital. “Over there. Careful of the guard dogs.”

“What?” Zac was terrified of dogs. “What do you mean?”

The man laughed again, finding his cigarette pack, and offering one.

“Do you need one of these?” he said. Zac shook his head. What he needed was to find his baby, his beautiful girl. The man took pity on Zac, “There’s no dogs, just a Matron.”

“Thanks,” said Zac, moving away. The man called after him, stubbing out his cigarette at the same time.

“She’s like a Pitbull. Don’t make any sudden moves.”

Zac was desperate, over the last two days he’d been trying to find the baby that had turned his life inside out. He’d travelled fifteen hundred miles to meet her, and he was dog-tired. But he was also nearly there.

Zac entered the maternity unit. It reminded him of the airport, with the same flooring and screwed down seating. There could be an arrivals board on the wall, and it wouldn’t have looked out of place. The overhead signs still weren’t much help. How was he supposed to know if he needed the Stork Suite or the Wallaby Ward? Zac looked around for some sort of indication of normal life, but there was none. There were elephants and tigers leaping two dimensionally around the walls and grinning in their mural-heaven. They had lips, Zac noticed with alarm, and the tiger had lipstick. The elephant was holding a baby in its’ trunk and balloons in its’ toes. How could it even do that?

A group of people came out of the corridor to Zac’s right. A nurse carried a car seat which engulfed the tiny baby, while the mother carried a teddy so large it flopped over her shoulders and watched Zac as they walked past and out of the door.

Zac instantly felt inadequate. With dread, he knew he should have bought a bigger teddy. His were too small, if that lady’s baby could have one like that, then his baby could have one much bigger. And prettier. That one’s face was a bit squashed on one side.

Another nurse, thankfully on her own, swept round the corner brightly. Zac looked carefully at her, he needed to make sure she wasn’t a matron. She looked smiley enough, with tidy hair, so he stepped forward, summoning up as much courage as he could.

“Hi, my baby’s here, but I don’t know where.” Zac blurted out.

The nurse smiled. “I’ll take you to the desk,” she said. “Cassie will help you.”

Cassie, it turned out, was not helpful at all. She had no sense of humour and no patience. Zac thought of the guard dogs, especially when she barked questions at him. In his whole life he’d never cried in public, but he was dangerously close now.

“Visiting times are over,” Cassie said without emotion. “Babies need quiet.”

Zac felt the last of his patience disappear into the black hole where Cassie’s had gone years before. It was replaced by fire, blistering hot as it rose out of him in a blaze of determination.

“Cassie,” he said, his voice edged sharply like a sword, “my baby is in this building. MINE. Neither you, nor anyone else, will keep me from her. I am not a visitor,” he announced loudly, “I am her father. Visiting hours are not my concern.” Zac was a Knight, charging into battle. He was strong and courageous. He was a New Dad. He marched towards the stairs.

“Sir?” he heard Cassie behind him. He didn’t turn round; he was on a mission.

“Sir?” he heard again. “Sir! It’s just down here, first on the left.”

Zac stood just inside the door. There were four beds in this ward, two empty and two occupied. Zac looked carefully at both women, hoping he wouldn’t make a mistake. He hadn’t seen Rachelle for months and was worried that he wouldn’t recognise her. At the base of one bed was a transparent cot, but the baby was with its’ mother, snuffling. Was that his baby? All crinkled and small?

At the base of the other bed was nothing. But in it, Rachelle leant against two pillows, her hair straggled around her face.

“Hello,” she said, smiling slightly.

“Hello,” Zac said, his voice catching with shyness as if he had a schoolboy crush. Rachelle patted the chair beside her bed.

“I didn’t think you’d come,” she said as he sat down. They were quiet for a while. There was no need to contradict her, Zac didn’t think he’d come either.

“Have you had it yet?” Zac said, glancing at the space at the end of the bed. He held his breath; he didn’t want to be there when it was born.

“Only just,” she laughed. “Fifteen minutes ago.”

Zac’s mouth went dry, and he wriggled in his seat.

“Is it ok?” he finally asked.

“It?”

“The baby.”

“I think so, he cried really loudly after he was born. They’re just checking him - I wish they’d hurry up.”

Zac had a son.

They waited together, listening to the suckling of the other baby. Zac tried not to look.

He had a son.

Just as the other baby fell asleep, the door was pushed open, and a nurse wheeled a cot in. Rachelle sat up and peered into the cot.

“Is he ok?” she asked tentatively. She was searching the nurse’s face intensely, trying to find a clue to how her baby was. Zac didn’t remember her being timid; she looked so vulnerable now, peering at the nurse for reassurance.

“He’s lovely and strong, and he needs his Mum,” the nurse said. She scooped up the baby and began laying him gently in Rachelle’s arms.

“No,” interrupted Rachelle, “he needs his dad.”

Zac felt all his confidence drain away. What if he dropped him? Or made him cry? But the nurse was giving him his son to hold, showing him how to cradle his head, and laying him in the crook of his arm.

Zac looked down, staring in awe.

“Liam, meet your Dad,” said Rachelle kindly.

Zac jolted the baby when he heard the name. Visions of another Liam shot urgently into his mind. The dirty, dribbly Liam that had licked the floor.

But his little Liam snuggled further into his arms and smelt clean. His boy wouldn’t be like that; he would be perfect. He glanced over at Rachelle who was slipping into a contented sleep.

Zac yawned. Since Tuesday, he’d been trying to reach his baby, to meet him and give him a dad. Now that he was here, he knew he’d have searched forever. And he’d give Liam not just any old dad, but the Best Dad.

He carefully bent over to pull the airport presents from his hold all. He unwrapped them gently, putting the soft dinosaur in Liam’s tiny hands and the teddy with the tutu next to Rachelle.

Zac stretched out his legs and put his head back against the chair. He’d come such a long way.

